Embrace that [ __ ] poster energy because I got news for you. They don't care about you, what you think, what you feel. And you need to fight fire with fire. You can't just lay back and play by a different set of rules while they're breaking all the rules. Can they get away with that forever? I really think that this last election broke me in a way. It radicalized me. And you know, my contention is you can't really defeat right-wing politics with centism. $200 million ballroom that's 90,000 ft at the White House. Do you think that guy is going to leave after four years? You think he's thinking of leaving after 4 years? The the thing is going to be done in like four years. He's going to want to experience it and use it. The best predictor of future action is past action. He already tried to steal the 2020 election. We don't need to guess. Welcome to Doomscroll. I'm your host Joshua Cinderella. My guest is Kyle Kolinsky, a YouTuber and political commentator. He is the host of the Kyle Kolinsky Show. I mean, I have talked to a number of people who come from a cultural background, from comedy, from music, from everything. It seems like no matter what sphere, what vertical, so to speak, to use the legacy media terminology for it, whatever vertical you're in, sports even, all of these things are inevitably driven towards politics in the last few years. It's a product of the bros sphere, it's a product of the Rogan sphere. Yeah. They were really the first ones to, you know, feain being apolitical, not interested in that kind of stuff, independent, above the fray, but then, you know, you watch any Rogan podcast within the past eight years. Yeah. And at some point he's going on his rant about wokeness being bad. At some point it's the left is crazy and here's why, let me tell you. And hammering away on culture war type issues as he ironically pretends like he's not all that interested in the culture war. And I think that really opened up the door and you saw this a lot of people followed Rogan, right? You have Andrew Schultz, for example, now fancies himself a political podcast. You have a lot of these guys now. I mean, I have written uh I wrote a piece in the Guardian a few years ago in defense of of Rogan. I've stood up for him in the past. Would you like to apologize now? Andrew Schultz, I have I have no uh Well, I think at that time it was correct and he's maybe made a bit of a turn in the last few years. I've heard you express some opinions about that recently. You famously introduced Bernie Sanders to Joe Rogan. Mhm. Why have liberals been unable to produce their own successful populist podcast? I mean, you could argue that my podcast might actually fit into that category. Yeah. I do think at the moment, I'm a leftist, but I do think at the moment, if you look at the makeup of the people who watch me now, I'm probably at about 50% people who would self-describe as liberal. Yeah. Because I think at the moment there's a coming together of liberals and leftists in a way that we haven't seen before. And it's all because everybody's looking at what Trump is doing in the White House and they're going anything but this. So, a lot of the people who are in the trenches fighting for Hillary in 2016 are now looking around and going, "You know what? Bernie was right. The left-wingers were right. The establishment doesn't know how to fight at all. I mean, this guy's back in the White House. Everything they told us that would defeat him was wrong. He's not defeated. And so, we got to give this a chance. We got to go in this direction. That's why you see Zoron Mandani, you know, winning in New York City for the primary and winning a, you know, if you look at the numbers, it's astounding. He won a majority of Jews even though he was smeared as an anti-semite. Right. Right. So, I think that there's a mass awakening among liberals. So, I do think it's fair to categorize like I'm a leftist populist, but enough liberals watch me where they would say, you know, that guy represents me. What is your what is your sense of the degree of trust in legacy media right now? Because I feel like a few years ago, maybe if you roll back the clock uh four years, an election cycle previously, that someone a public figure being smeared as an anti-semite would be really, really damaging to where they could not win such an extraordinary amount of votes. I think legacy media is sort has sort of bottomed out and they're going to stay roughly where they are. Nobody really trusts them anymore. That's both a blessing and a curse. It's a blessing because you want people to look at independent and new media, but it's a curse because so much of independent new media is also a cesspool, right? Like I feel like everybody has an innate skepticism now of mainstream media correctly. So they look at it like, you know, I I don't know if I trust this. The guy seems inauthentic wearing a suit paring talking points. Um, but to your point, now people have rushed to new media and they might look at the brophere and think, "Oh, these guys are honest and telling me the truth." And they just get totally brainwashed into right-wing garbage. So, I've like I've been sort of an equal opportunity hater these days where my anger is directed both at mainstream media and at new media. Um, but for mainstream media in particular, I feel like the real death nail is the genocide in Gaza. Like every now and then you might get one story that comes out where they do a half decent job, but this thing is not discussed as the moral atrocity and horror that it is. You know, in a world that made sense, you'd have this like on a loop 24/7 non-stop coverage. You'd have people accurately calling Benjamin Netanyahu a war criminal saying he should be arrested. Like these are just objective things to say. This is not like an opinion, right? And uh they don't do that. And I think that's one of the main reasons, especially with younger people, why they still have this burning passionate hatred for mainstream media. And I don't foresee it getting better. I think it's only going to get worse. But at the same time, the advertiser money really props them up. So I don't see them going anywhere. Even though their ratings are bad, they're just going to be on air speaking into an old age home from now until the end of time. Right. Right. Well, I mean, there is a little bit of a saving grace in that the advertisers are motivated by profit. And if nobody's watching it at all, they can't recoup their spend on it. So there's a little bit of a kind of constraining mechanism there. That's true. But I think the the legacy of the name of CNN is like enough to make the oh CNN, you know, people act like it's 1987 or 1998 and you said, "Oh, CNN the name." And uh so I do think that it's it's a ghost town, but at the same time, I think the advertisers might be silly enough to say, "Yeah, go ahead. Give them the money. Keep them." They had the whole market dominated, right? They had it cornered because there was no alternative for a long time. And they also had a more robust like factchecking department and editorial gatekeepers. And this is in like the theory of value as it pertains to media like the uh restrictions on the flow of capital basically not being able to buy placement in legacy media is what built up all of that value right and now what's happening is that you're seeing these brand names basically sell off their credibility to the advertisers as you have this rise of the other sphere on the topic of I want to segue us into this on this topic of alt media why is the right-wing so overwhelmingly dominant there was the 2025 media matters study. I'm sure you've seen this and we can dispute their method of categorization and all this stuff, but they report and I think it's uh fair to say it's like 90% dominated by conservative voices. Why do you think that is? I think they're willing to [ __ ] post. I think they're willing to be edgy. I think they're willing to uh, you know, push boundaries. They're willing to do the things that naturally and and organically get more eyeballs on them. And I think that's tied into, you know, you don't start overtly political. you start with just something interesting and edgy and then eventually you become political. Again, it's like the Rogan thing that we talked about before. And they're willing to do that. Whereas I feel like people on the left, there's still a little bit of an aversion to be a like actually edgy, actually push boundaries, actually like, hey, look at me, get some attention by doing something crazy. And I think we suffer as a result of that. And yeah, hearing those numbers is that's a dagger to my heart, too. 90%. That's what that study said. 90% right-wing. Yeah. Oh my god. We got a lot of work to do, man. Speaking of being edgy, uh you recently called the president, I'm just checking my notes here, um a fat [ __ ] How do you consider your online presence on X or Twitter or what have you? What I've learned from is the right. I learned from the right because I look at them be the most unhinged, relentless bullies and freaks you've ever seen in your life. Yeah. And get rewarded for it. And it looks to me like people and voters reward strength more than anything else. And so there's something about the bully that actually is appealing to people. They might not like to admit it, but it's true. And so what I'm doing is copying the tactics of the right in an in an attempt to defeat the right. And we're seeing this now with the gerrymandering fight, too, right? You have, oh, we're going to get five more seats in Texas. And then Gavin Newsome goes, okay, well, we're going to wipe that out and do five more Democratic seats in California. Then you have Betto Oor comes out. Better Ror who's a corporate Democrat. He goes, "Fuck the rules. There are no rules anymore. There are no referees. If you whatever you do, we're going to do the same shit." And that's the mentality that we people on the left have been screaming for the Democrats to have for the longest time. And I feel like just now people are beginning to get it. So what I would do is I would encourage anybody who's a liberal or a leftist, embrace that [ __ ] poster energy. Embrace that I don't give a [ __ ] energy. Cuz I got news for you. They don't care about you, what you think, what you feel. They understand how to gain power and how to exercise power. And you need to fight fire with fire. You can't just lay back and play by a different set of rules while they're breaking all the rules. And so that energy really came. I really think that this last election broke me in a way. It radicalized me. Watching Trump get in the White House again. Yeah. It, you know, it makes you feel like, okay, well, now I don't even give a [ __ ] anymore. I'm throwing haymakers in every direction, right? I'm going out like Scarface at the end of Scarface. I'm shooting every, you know, say hello to my little friend, right? And it turns out that actually works. Turns out that gets more eyeballs on you. Turns out that gets more people interested in what you're saying. Turns out people look at that and go, "Yes, you're a fighter. You represent me. Thank you. Keep doing it." Right? And that's something that even I didn't realize until very, very recently. Just the extent to which you really got to fight hard and go balls to the wall and just call it's it's okay. The right is very clear. They have political enemies and they call them out day after day. We need to be clear in the opposite direction, but my enemies are not trans people. My enemy, it's not immigrants. My enemies are the billionaires and the fascists. And so that's where I aim 24/7 and try to attack. Yeah. On this topic of the corporate Democrats, there's been a lot of talk in the last few months about particularly young men, but just young people in general moving towards the right and a lot of struggle to explain why this is. You know, 15 points for young men, 11 points for young women. And I think of our generation and growing up with like the work of Thomas Frank, right? I had a very clear idea that there's a there's a story that explains how the Democrats went from being the Labor constituency to this corporatist party. And you know, maybe if you're growing up in Gen Z, you just don't have the historical memory. You haven't known anyone who ever experienced that transition. What was the story that you grew up with? What made you think or people of our age that the Democrats were like the party of the working class? Well, it was just the right was insane. Like everything was evangelical fundamentalist Christianity. [ __ ] gay people. They shouldn't have the right to get married. Um it was like social authoritarianism mixed with economic insanity where you want to give more tax cuts to the rich and you want to destroy the social safety net. And looking at that, it was just a default option that you go with the left. and the left at the time, you know, it's counterculture in the sense that if you're out there when we were kids saying people should have the right to get married, people are like, "Oh, you know, but now, you know, thankfully we've reached at least that one." But um it was never really a question. And then when I don't know about you, but for me in the the Bush era is when I really opened my eyes to politics because it was very clear to me this war is based on nothing. Yeah. Like Saddam Hussein didn't attack us. Saddam Hussein had nothing to do with N. Like what are we talking about? Are you kidding me? They were trying to link Saddam to Osama. That was total BS. Then they moved the goalpost and said Saddam has weapons of mass destruction, which number one, he doesn't. Number two, even if he did, the idea that he's going to like launch on Cleveland any minute is absurd. And so there was just this uh default liberalism and leftism where you felt like anything but this, man. Anything but this. And the Democrats at the time paid lip service to being anti-war or at least more anti-war than the Republicans. And that sort of led to our, you know, our political awakening. And then we had the torture and everything that Dick Cheney and and Bush did. Um, and look, at some point the right got really good at lying. And that's what that's the that's the story of the Trump era is, you know, pretending he's anti-war, pretending he's going to look out for the working class, right? Then getting in office and doing more war and outsourcing more jobs and destroying the working class. And I I really think that uh, you know, the young people today, the ones who moved right, they fell for the two-step. They fell for the lies. Because all of Trump's flaws, he certainly feels authentic. He sounds authent. But that's not true. And that's, you know, that's why we are where we are. Well, there's a problem in that. I think I feel like most people living in the US just like have not they've not felt the impact of a policy on their lives for as long as they've been alive, right? It's just been this kind of slow drift towards neoliberal privatization. And so if you haven't really felt the uh the benefits of participating in politics, then yeah, Vibes is kind of really powerful. That's true. Yeah. But now what they're about to realize is with this big [ __ ] bill that just passed where they kick 17 million people off their Medicaid. Yeah. Now you're going to feel it. And by the way, the Republicans uh put like a little buffer zone in there where it's like, oh, that kicks in in 2026 and this other thing kicks in in 2028. So when those things hit, the Republicans are going to go, "Oh, look, the it's happening under the Democrats, right? That's their dirty trick that they're doing. But this bill kicks 17 million people off their Medicaid, kicks 3 million people off food stamps. This is going to be a horror show. I really don't think people get how bad this is going to be for the country, right? Yeah. No kidding. Um, a lot of directions I want to take this. Uh, very quickly on this topic of counterculture. Um, it is unimaginable to people of our age that there is a right-wing counterculture now, right? That this is an edgy transgressive identity for like Gen Z kids. Mh. How do you explain this shift versus like growing up with the idea of being oppositional or like anti-hedgemonic power was a leftwing identity by default? Yeah, I would say that uh the right is just lying and they're good at it. You know, I like that's the thing. They always try to rebrand as being edgy and being counterculture, but by definition, right-wing politics can't be edgy and can't be counterculture because the whole point of right-wing politics is to protect the hierarchy and the power structure, right? The whole point of leftwing politics is the opposite, to go after the hierarchy and the power structure. And that's what people need to realize is that, you know, you've been had if you really think right-wing politics is transgressive. How is it transgressive that Trump just cut taxes for the wealthy and raise taxes for the working class? How's that transgressive? You know, how's it transgressive when you give corporations all the power? How's it transgressive when you bomb Iran, bomb Somalia, bomb Yemen, and do all the things that we feared he was going to do? None of that is transgressive. Yeah, you know, I guess they would say, "Oh, the fact that he goes after trans people is transgressive or whatever, but that's [ __ ] Trans people have no [ __ ] power. They have no power. or they're not hurting anybody. They're not ruining anybody's life. They're just trying to live their own life and be as happy as they could be. So, they flipped it where they made the young people think, "Oh, on the culture stuff, we can be transgressive by like hating the groups that are different." And it's like, I'm sorry, that's not transgressive. That's like your Bull Connor in 1959. You know what I'm saying? It's the opposite of transgressive. The real transgressive thing is to stand up for the people who are downtrodden and shoved aside by society and that society looks down on. That's the real like transgressive thing is to say no, these are our brothers and sisters and we're going to represent them and fight for them. What is your version of this story? How the Democrats became this corporate party? I think when you mentioned this like 1959 era, the environment that Jenzi kids grew up in has been so radically different that they don't really recall what that kind of patriarchal hegemonic structure was like previously. How do you describe that story, the shift within the Democratic party? I think Thomas Frank gets it right. I think that, you know, what is it? The DLC, Democratic Leadership Council in the 1990s comes along and basically the Democrats say we're going to start taking corporate money just like the Republicans. And that made it so the Democrats instead of just representing the unions, instead of representing the teachers, instead of representing the lawyers, they decided, okay, well, now we got to also represent these corporations. And so you had the rightward shift of the Democratic party. You had the repeal of GlassSteagall. You had welfare reform under Bill Clinton. And um that led to what effectively was an identity crisis for the Democrats because then from then on you had the Democrats being a centrist party and the Republicans staying a right-wing party. And you know my contention is you can't really defeat right-wing politics with centism because it's toothless. It's mealy mouth. It's toothless. It's conceding half the argument to the right. And so I think what we're going through now is this tumultuous period where Democrats are being forced to to redefine themselves and figure out a way forward. And I think what they're going to realize is the only way forward is to go to the left. I mean, you're even seeing this now around the issue of Gaza that now Democrats are trying to find their bearings. And I think that on this issue and a lot of issues, uh, Democrats are are going to have to realize, uh, you don't really have a choice anymore. I think the the Democratic base is being radicalized in a similar way to how the Republican base was radicalized in 2016, how Trump just took over the whole party in in a hostile way. I think what the Democrats are going to realize is the first candidate, Hassan [ __ ] said this the other day, the first candidate who's who goes on the debate stage and says Israel can suck my dick is going to win in a [ __ ] landslide and people are going to realize like oh so what you need is a Trump of the left who's willing to say the things and willing to get ahead and uh so I do think we're in a transitionary period now but yeah we live through the corporatization of the Democrats where you know you had Bill Clinton, you had Barack Obama, the audacity hope everybody felt like oh Maybe he'll be like another FDR. Wrong. He was like a slightly less bad Bill Clinton, right? You had Joe Biden come along who was half dead, but at the same time, even he managed to be a little more to the left than Obama and certainly more to the left than Clinton on everything except funding the genocide. Of course, like on economic issues, he was a little better than them. But now it really is the wakeup call. And you could either, you know, the party could either, maybe I'm wrong, and maybe they'll put a good liar out there who will convince everybody, oh, I'm a lefty, and then still do the neoliberal stuff. That's certainly possible. But at the very least, they're going to have to pantomime and mimic the things that you and I want to hear because those are the only candidates that are going to start winning. We're going to have a Tea Party of the left that, you know, we previously thought was not really possible. I've been seeing these memes actually exactly that. The uh the Tea Party Democrats, I think it's a very small account. I probably shouldn't even be blowing up their spot right now, but like insurgent force within the Democratic Party. Yeah. And I co-founded Justice Democrats. I was going to ask that was, you know, we tried to do this basically Tea Party the left thing, but we just missed the window. like the window is now. It was not when we did. We were too early, right? We tried to do it in like 2018ish. And people just weren't ready yet. At the time, the Democratic voters felt like, yeah, I think Trump winning was a fluke. And so, I'm still kind of with Nancy Pelosi. I'm still kind of with Hillary Clinton. That's what the base felt like, at least according to the polling. A fluke twice. But, but now they don't feel like that. Now, they feel like, okay, these people are not equipped to deal with Trump and we need to go in a different direction. Yeah. Uh, so I mean, previous to doing this podcast, I wrote a lot about internet politics distilling into the real world, right? Like what are the pathways between these two things? To what degree is posting memes influential? To what degree does it turn people out to vote, protest, join the National Guard, all sorts of different political outcomes for young people who are boiled in the broth of this internet culture. One of the groups that I would point to is that Justice Democrats. You are a co-founder of that organization. Would you maybe for people who haven't heard of this before, tell us what that group was and why you ultimately decided to part ways? Yeah. So, um, after Hillary Clinton lost, I was really pissed off. Jenker as well, the Young Turks was really pissed off. I was part of their network at the time. We decided to do something to, uh, try to come up with like a Tea Party of the left. So, we founded Justice Democrats. And the idea was, let's bring in leftwing Democrats in the mold of Bernie Sanders to primary uh, corporate Democrats around the country. And we got some victories. I mean AOC we got we helped get AOC in there you know Rashidita Talib Ilhan Omar there's a lot Mark Pokehan there's a lot of people Roana and then our breakup eventually came when uh I think there was like a staff revolt against Jenk for old blog post that he wrote. Huh. And um it was some 1990s blog post where he was joking and said the genes of women are inferior because they don't want to have sex with me enough. But people took it seriously. he was actually saying the genes of women were inferior and um so there was a revolt and they basically said it's him or us and Jenk decided look I'll step down because I don't want to ruin this amazing thing that we built and then you know I was like well I don't think this is right I'm going to step down in solidarity with with my friend here and my co-founder and so that's what led to us stepping down but they still went on to do good work even after after we left they still helped get people elected and funded certain campaigns and stuff uh but as I said we really like missed our window like now if we were right if we were doing it it seems like it would be even more popular cuz you're see Well, Bernie's trying to do a version of it himself, too. Now, he launched something where he's trying to get these leftwing candidates elected. But I think the tide can't be held back anymore in a way where previously that wasn't the case. We had to fight for everything. Now, it seems like the default is give me new fresh blood saying leftwing things. That's who we support. At that time, did people dismiss the organization because it was in part uh promoted founded by internet personalities? 100%. Yeah. In fact, to this day, I'm not sure. Even after you won elections, crazy. I'm not sure there's a single article on Justice Democrat that actually mentions my name as a co-founder. Really? I wrote the whole platform because it delegitimizes it somehow. Yeah, they I mean, I don't think they knew. I don't think they cared. I think they viewed it as a mild annoyance uh that they even whoever was assigned to write an article about it had to write an article about it. But I was never mentioned in the articles about it. Even Jenk was not mentioned in some of the article which is crazy because we also had people from brand new congress showcardi Zack Xley we had these other people who were doing like on the ground stuff for it and after after we had some candidates win there there was a we were taken a little more seriously right but still the sense of derision the sense of like you know who are you what are you doing here like just almost indifference like total indifference to us and uh we were more successful than people thought we would be for sure I mean to get I don't even know the exact number, but there's a bunch of candidates in there who are justice Democrats and uh you know we don't we don't really get our due for that. This is I mean this is what is so maddening about this practice, this research, this thread of conversation is that I mean I have been hacking away at this for like I don't know like eight years now. It's been a long time. And um in like 2012 in the art world we had this we had this phrase called digital dualism. And what that described it was coined by this uh blogger uh theorist Nathan Jurgensson. Digital dualism referred to the IRL and the URL and that those are two totally separate spheres and they don't overlap. What happens on the internet isn't real. That was the that's the short hand of it. And I had been struggling to make this uphill argument that like the memes that young people post are going to be meaningful years later into their lives. And then I had to conduct a series of interviews. Had to talk to those people, see what outcomes happened in their lives. And like yeah, the media environment we grow up in is really really influential. And now the [ __ ] White House abides by the attention economy and is like meme posting every week with this like outrageous sensationalist material. Why is there still such incredible resistance to taking things that happen online seriously? Because it's scary. It's the wild west, you know, and for people who like I think of somebody like my mom who's not really online at all. Like to her that's such a foreign world. It wouldn't occur to her that the White House can post a 1488 hile Hitler meme that Homeland Security is posting stuff like that and that you have these gropers who are in the administration. You know what I'm saying? And there are there's a lot of these people who are in the administration. it just it it wouldn't it wouldn't occur to them. So, I think that people are just scared of how much of the Wild Wild West it is, how different it is, how unhinged it is. There there is something that's real about, you know, if you're anonymous or whatever. People say a lot more wild [ __ ] when they're anonymous and if it's their face on it. The internet has sort of allowed people to become their own id, right? And uh in some ways, I think if you're on the left, that's a good thing. I think if you're on the right, it's a bad thing. I think I think if you show your id and you're a right winger, you're going, "I'm a fascist. Look at me. I love Hitler. Right? If you're on the left, you're going everybody should have healthcare and [ __ ] you if you disagree. Right. Right. There's a difference there. But yeah, for sure the internet has either become real life or, you know, it's a 50-50 deal where some of it is real life and some of it's not real life. But I don't even think we've fully caught up to that yet and digested what that means in the long run. In the same way that I don't think we've fully caught up to and digested what AI is going to mean in the long run and how much that's going to change our lives and how much that upends society. so much of what we do like we do it and then worry about the consequences later and Yep. I don't I don't know how much that's going to work. You know, since they don't really threaten power, they've been welcomed into the fold. You know, you can see Charlie Kirk on Fox News, for example. He was just hosting Fox and Friends the other day. So the fringe MAGA pundits online, the young fringe MAGA pundits, they're welcomed with open arms into the mainstream. Whereas on the left, none of us are welcomed. I I would be surprised if even, you know, [ __ ] do 40 Democratic Congress people know who I am? Maybe, maybe not. Right. Does MSNBC have any clue who I am? Right. Right. the Democratic and and liberal and left-wing infrastructure. They're actively hostile to people like me, people like Hassan [ __ ] people like fill in the blank with whatever liberal leftwing streamer you can think of or content creator you can think of. And they will be at a permanent disadvantage unless they let people like us shape the messaging uh and also genuinely listen to our ideas. But of course, since we really challenge power and they're, you know, partly in bed with power, that's why they want to keep us at an arms length. You know what I'm saying? You can't really represent Loheed Martin and also eat lunch with Kyle Kolinsky the same day. That's going to be tough. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz I would call that out and then you become an enemy. They're spending They're spending tons of money, like hundreds of millions of dollars on this space to try and like make their own, you know, liberal Joe Rogan, so to speak. They're trying to penetrate this media space. The only uh the closest thing to a liberal Joe Rogan I've seen is you, by the way. Somebody who's uh, you know, talking to people and just hearing their thoughts and a lot of leftwingers, that would be you. You're the closest thing we've got. But for them to try to force that, it you're not going to make it if it's not authentic. You can't just pay somebody to do what I do. You just you can't you do actually have to believe it. You have to believe it. You have to be all about it. I mean, [ __ ] there's videos of me, like I said, I started in 2008 as a hobby. I'm in my grandma's basement with a pitch black room behind me. Yeah. With my little baby face and I'm talking about torture. Yeah. At Guantanamo Bay in Abu Gra. Yeah. You can't fake that. What are you going to do? How you gonna I was 20 years old at the time. Like that's not going to happen. You're not going to be able to just jerryrig something out of nothing. And they might learn the hard way that that's not going to work. I mean, they have Ken Climbstein has been tweeting about this some like new DNC stream that they're doing and he was showing the numbers and it was like 222 views or something. Oh boy. Yeah. And it's like, bro, you you know, you could just actually look at the landscape that's out there and adopt some of our ideas and start treating us like the right treats there online figures. But like I said, there's a there's a structural reason why they don't. right-wing MAGA pundits, young pundits, they don't threaten power, so they're welcomed in the fray. We do, so we're not really welcomed in the fray. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. On this topic of Charlie Kirk, uh maybe not Charlie Kirk specifically, but this more outspoken white nationalist current of the Republican party, why is this allowed and tolerated if the Republican coalition is increasingly multi-racial? How do we square these two things? They're not going to be multi-racial for long. It's not going to be multi-racial for long because you see the rise who's who has the most movement on the right. Nick Fuentes, right? And it's not even close. In fact, you have all these other pundits like genulecting at the altar of Nick Fuentes. You have like Alex Jones desperately trying to get some uh some public sway off Nick Fuentes, having him on his show all the time. You have this Tucker this fight between Tucker and Nick Fuentes and Candace Owens and Nick Fuentes. And Nick is winning. Yeah, he's winning. He's winning even though he's, you know, he's been censored and deplatformed and isked debanked. All that stuff got taken away and he's winning. So, you have to ask yourself, why is that? It's because the true id of the Republican party is Nick Fuentes. I think he actually represents it better when he actually comes out. He's going to love that. Well, when he comes out and says, "Yeah, I think uh, you know, race and IQ. I think that there's actually a thing there and I think uh, white people are superior." Do you think that's not what you know the MAGA voter in Arkansas believes in his heart of hearts? It is. But he's willing to say it and others are not. So now the dog whistles come across as inauthentic because they are. The southern strategy was inauthentic. They were effectively lying. Oh, we'll say welfare queen because we can't say the nword anymore. Yeah. Right. And he comes along and says, "Well, what if I just say the n word?" And how you going to fight back against that if if the logic of what you're doing is pointing in his direction? Yeah. And then he's like, "I'll just say it." Of course, he's going to be the one that gets the movement and gets the juice. Of course. And but what what the right needs to understand is by all means you want to go down that path, go down that path. You're going to get obliterated. Obliterated because now the same process is happening on the left where our id is winning. We're now class war ID. Yes. People point at people like me. He's actually saying it. Yeah. He's saying [ __ ] the billionaires and nobody should be a billionaire. Tax these [ __ ] Kyle saying maybe goologs weren't a horrible idea. Looking at the fact that we got concentration camps being built now by Trump. I didn't rounding up innocent people and sending them in there. So in the same way that he's got movement on the right, it's people like me that have movement on the left and you know the Midas Touch Network and they're liberals but at the same time they're going to all the Bernie and and AOC rallies and they're repeating a lot of the same things we're repeating talking about the torture at Alligator Alcatraz. And you are seeing it, you know, the country is fundamentally sort of moving towards a breaking point in a sense because you have the rise of outright white nationalist stuff on the right and then on the left you have the rise of at the very least we can call it democratic socialism, but it may even be further than that. And it really is true when people say it's socialism or barbarism, right? And that we're getting to that breaking point now. And um that's why you see the movement that's happening and that's why you see Nick Fuentes being the most popular on the right and people like us most popular on the left and everybody who's in that anybody trying to do the whole enlightened centrist thing in the year of our lord 2025 good luck very tough right now. Nobody's interested in some oh I have a nuance point like nobody's interested in that. This is a [ __ ] bar fight and somebody's coming at your neck with a with a broken beer bottle trying to stab you in the jugular. You going to try to [ __ ] negotiate with that? Is that what you're going to try to do? Cuz it's not going to work. Uh I want to get back to Charlie Kirk in a second now, but uh you mentioned democratic socialism. Previously you had identified as a social democrat. I understand these terms are very much in flux. How far is too far left for you right now? I don't have a good answer to that question. And the reason I don't have a good answer to that question is because I truly have been radicalized by the right in a way that I didn't think was possible. When I'm out there calling myself a social democrat, that's under the assumption that everybody is willing to play by the same rules. Everybody's willing to be reasonable. Everybody's willing to concede a point when a point is correct. Uh it seems to me like social democracy is the true moderation, is the true middle ground, is the true like as long as everybody's got their head screwed on right, we can make this work. Yeah. Right. When you look at what Trump is doing, you look at alligator Alcatraz, you look at uh CCOT, the supermax prison, you look at these concentration camps being built all over the country, you look at rounding up innocent people, no due process, no habius corpus, sending them there. You look at masked ICE agents. the reason why they're wearing masks is because they know what they're doing is illegal. You look at bombing Iran, bombing Somalia, bombing Yemen, doing all these horrible things. You look at the trade war, which is spiking inflation, spiking unemployment. You look at all these things and then at the same time, you see Trump's approval with the Republican base go up. All that stuff I just mentioned went up to 94% in one poll. Went up two or three points after all the Epstein stuff. He was outed as a pedophile human trafficker. Yeah, that I was going to ask you about that. Like, what the [ __ ] is going on? His numbers went up after being outed as a pedophile human trafficker, bro. And the speculation was maybe he really did kill Epstein. And the base goes I like him more now. Right. He who was the president when he was killed. It was it was Trump. But he would have killed him to cover up being a pedophile. Correct. And that's the better. I don't know. He doesn't It doesn't have to make sense, but this is what he does. So, at the same time all that's going on and the Republican base is going, "We love this even more." At that point, I'm looking at this and I'm like, I don't understand you guys. I don't get you guys. You are so disconnected from reality. You don't give a [ __ ] about anything real. You clearly don't care about improving people's lives. In fact, your whole point seems to be to destroy people's lives. So, in a system like that, when I look at, you know, naive Kyle saying, "No, social democracy is the way to go." Now, I go, I think we got to go further. I think we got to go further. We can't [ __ ] allow [ __ ] like this. I mean, it sounds crazy to say something like re-education camps, but when you look at how insane the right has gotten, how can we just go back to I mean, what you were just cheering as your neighbor who's done nothing wrong to you got dragged kicking and screaming and sent to a concentration camp. You approve of that. You're okay with that and I'm supposed to wake up tomorrow and go to work with you and chitchat with you at the [ __ ] water cooler, right? Who are we kidding? So, I feel like uh I don't have a good answer for that, but all I can say is um we probably have to go further than social democracy because uh to counterbalance the insanity on the right, uh it's going to take a hell of a lot more even just to get us back to baseline. It's going to take two terms of a Democratic president who's on it and can actually get [ __ ] done. And that's just to get us back to baseline where Medicare functions, Medicaid functions, social security functions. We uh refund the pediatric cancer research that Elon Musk cut. We bring back meals on wheels. Liberal baseline. You mean? Yes. Just a neoliberal baseline. That's how much we are in hell right now. And so my my appetite for any sort of dialogue or moderation with the right or nuance is just gone. I don't want to hear [ __ ] from them. They can shut the [ __ ] up and go away forever and let the adults run the country. To watch part two of this episode, you can support the show on Patreon. I'm going to read you a quote. We can choose to use this or not. So, Kyle, I know you're a huge fan of Nick Fuentes. You're really into streaming. You love the political content. I'm going to read you this quote. Uh, I'd like to hear your thoughts about it. The Cold War ended 30 years ago. Zoomers weren't even alive at the same time as the Soviet Union. Nobody under the age of 30 gives a [ __ ] about big government in quotes. This socialism/ capitalism dialectic is ancient. It's not just even relevant anymore. That dichotomy simply does not describe the world we live in. This is just boomer anacronism. Young people literally don't own anything and are looking at a life of debt and wage slavery. We are coming to terms with the consequences of globalization and industrial technological society. Virtually all forms of authentic identity, community and tradition have been vaporized. This is the world that zoomers are inheriting and the old people want us to be concerned about something called socialism which nobody can even define. Of the things I'm concerned about in my future, big government isn't one of them. We have the biggest government in the history of the world. How would you even measure the size of government? This is going to go on for a little while. Is it spending? Is it personnel? Constitutional authority. It's a completely nonsensical term. And even if you could come up with a metric, it would be irrelevant. Imagine telling some undermployed 25-year-old college grad in Ohio that government spending as a percentage of GDP went down this year. Oh, cool. By the way, I can't afford healthcare. Nobody cares about Ronald Reagan. [ __ ] the free market. Ben Shapiro should be taxed at 100%. And if that makes him leave, then good. How should we understand these new what I would call class resentment, if not class consciousness? How should we understand these currents that are emerging on the right? Um, I don't believe them. I don't believe them. Uh, there's a video of Nick Fuentes from a couple years ago that I played on my show. Uh, and in that video, he talks about his deep sthing hatred of the poor. And he repeats it over and over again. And he says, "I love the rich. I want to be rich. I want to be around rich people. I hate poor people. [ __ ] poor people. That are his actual feelings on that. I think anytime a fascist or a white nationalist flirts with language like that, they do it because they're trying to steal the left's thunder, knowing that our stance on economic issues is way more popular. And they want to hook them in for their real agenda. And the real agenda is all around race, is all around authoritarianism, is all around religiosity, is all around, you know, making the country be uh an ethnostate effectively. Uh, and if you listen to his show, that's what he talks about. He doesn't talk about the minimum wage. He doesn't talk about unions. He doesn't talk about universal healthcare. He [ __ ] never brings those things up. The things he talks about are exactly what you'd expect. It's [ __ ] the Jews. It's black people are inferior. It's it's all the things you'd expect. And so people need to be really careful when looking at these right-wing figures because yes, he's more honest than most right-wing pundits, but he's honest about those things. He's trying to hook people in when it comes to economic stuff. And this is a tale as old as time, you know? This is a tale as old as time that fascists do is they pretend like, "Oh yeah, yeah, totally. We're for the working class. Yeah, no, we got nothing against socialism, bro." But of course, what did Hitler do? He killed the communists, right? So, uh, everybody needs to be very careful around these issues in particular when it comes to the right because it's one of those, it's that win tweet, the drill tweet, uh, no, you don't have to hand it to ISIS. And this is one of those issues. It's like, no, you don't have to hand it to these white nationalists. They don't mean that [ __ ] They don't care about economics. It's all about an ethnostate. They really think if you rid the country of minorities, like, then everything's great. You [ __ ] kidding me? What What percentage of Wall Street, for example, is white? 99 point something, right? And these [ __ ] [ __ ] the entire country, committed fraud on a grand scale, crashed the global economy, bankrupted their companies, got bailed out, got free tax money in bonuses, and what I'm supposed to think just cuz somebody's white, they're going to do right by the country and fix the country. It's total [ __ ] [ __ ] But if if you watch them, that's what they actually believe and that's what they actually talk about. So I don't take anything they say on economics seriously. I mean there's it is unmistakable in this country that the overwhelming majority of people are downwardly mobile right Marxists would call this proletarianization they're falling from the upper class middle class into the working class and so if you are looking to put together any political coalition you need to address that shared experience right the class experience of being disappropriated downward mobility and I've been thinking about this a lot um I haven't yet I'm going to try it out here so it first came across my news feed speaking Speaking of FDR, when Curtis Jarvin was interviewed in the New York Times saying that FDR ran the United States like a startup, which is um wrong because startups are lean, that's how they out compete uh incumbents. And the one thing that private companies can't do is print their own money, which defines a [ __ ] government. But it really made me start thinking that he actually gave away the game. He he gave up the ghost with that one because the game just as you're describing here as Nick Fuentes is doing as all these guys do is they kind of head fake what the class politics should be and they head off the competition right so someone who is downwardly mobile in their workplace to use the example of Nick Fuentes they're going to hear that rhetoric and they're going to steer towards his project but what they need to be steered into is organization in their workplace uh trade you know uh rank and file trade unions and so on and similarly if you were looking to head off a um social democratic movement, let's say, that had uh FDR- like powers, neo FDR meaning an empowered executive branch, you would have to make that a very poisonous idea and start to call it incorrectly call it a dictator. And I think a lot of the rhetoric from the most successful brands on the right are basically trying to rhetorically head off the left positions by incorrectly describing them. Can they get away with that forever? No. No, they can't. Cuz like I said, now the democratic id, the liberal ID, the leftist id is coming out and we're not playing anymore, right? And we're being way more aggressive. We're being way more straightforward. We're being way more honest about what we actually think and what we actually believe. And I don't think they can beat us. If it's a idto-id fight, we win. Because uh shoving minorities in concentration camps and making this country an ethnostate is a lot less intuitively appealing than somebody on the left saying you deserve higher wages. You deserve healthare. You deserve to be in a union so you have better benefits. You deserve all the things that would make a decent, you know, middle class life where you feel like there's hope and you feel like you have a future, right? You paid vacation time by law. I'm a big fan of a 4-day work week. Uh all those things sounds great. as you're right. And so in a head-to-head fight, they're losing that fight 10 out of 10 times. Which again is why they have to try to co-opt our rhetoric. Yeah. Yeah. To make people No, no. See, come over here. We'll give you all the economic stuff you like, but racism, too. Right. And we're like, no, no racism, and we'll give you the economic stuff. And the difference is we mean it. They're not actually going to do the economic stuff. Yeah. So, I I do think and I think that the coalition I've had this conversation a lot recently, me and Crystal have. The coalition that's a winning coalition is liberals, leftists, and independents. And you know, I think what people need to realize is that 37% that is still with Donald Trump at this electoral coalition. Electoral coalition. Correct. Yeah. That 37% that's still with Donald Trump at this moment after every single thing he's done. Uh they're gone. Yeah. They're gone. Not worth trying to win. No. Sure. No. Cuz you you'd have to effectively change your core values to pander to people who simply don't agree with you. Some people are just theocrats and you're never going to convince them that, you know, whatever. They're just divinity is their worldview and it's not worth debating. We want bad things for other people. It exists. This is something we have to like contend with because normally as leftists and people liberals tend to do this too feel like oh everybody generally wants the same things. No, I think most people want correct but not everyone. But that 37% that's still what Trump after he set up concentration camps. 37% is high. Insane. And that's that's the that's the realization that I've had in this uh second Trump term is oh that's higher. That's higher than I thought it was. I always said it's anywhere between 26% and 33% I think is the actual floor. Yeah. And I stand by that. It might be more close to the high end there. Might be more like 33, but uh when the [ __ ] really hits the fan, that's where he's going to be at rock bottom. And that 33% sayanara. Are they Sorry to get into the weeds on this, but is that 33% is it a cult of personality around Trump or are you understanding that like a third of society is just ideologically fascist? Both. I think it's both things. I think it's both the culture around Trump and they're ideologically fascist. And that is more than I would have thought it was previously. Yeah. You know, I had a lot of hope in human communication and persuading abilities. Yeah. And then as time has gone by, it's like I don't know because and I I with my own family, I experienced this, right, with my extended family. You go to a a holiday event and of course I never want to talk politics at these family events, but maybe an uncle of mine will or some [ __ ] And you know, you're two minutes into the conversation and you're going, there is z a zero% chance this ends in any ameliorable way. Yeah. Right. You're going, there's no way we're we're hitting a brick wall within the first two minutes. And unfortunately, I think that's common. And it's not, you know, I'd like to have the optimistic view of, oh no, you could change a lot of minds and stuff. And don't get don't get it wrong, there are you can do that to some extent, but it's just less than what I originally thought. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, um, as a as a counterpoint to this, what if there is, um, let's take that example of, uh, postwar up until the 1970s, and there's, you know, some section of society that is just ideologically theocratic or fascistic or something like that, but they exist in a workplace in which they have rank and file very organized, disciplined trade unions. What if their own personal ideology is not the determining factor in how they vote? Is there a possibility through workplace discipline that you can like move this electoral majority? Yeah. Yeah, I guess. And also uh you know there's the other elements that we discussed previously of like culture in general over time and vibes over time. I think those things can sort of take somebody who you might be able to get somebody who doesn't actually agree with you to vote for you based on those grounds. Um so that is definitely a possibility. But I think the the path at the moment is more clear than it's ever been moving forward because um you just you know who's reachable and who's not reachable and there should be no time wasted going after the notreachable ones on YouTube. I feel like with this show I have a very clear idea of the target audience I'm trying to reach. Who are you trying to reach with your content? Oh, anybody who listen. Anybody who listen. There was a long time when it was like my audience was like 90% male. Um, and now that's changed recently. I'm like maybe 70 or 80% male. YouTube is overwhelmingly like male dominated. Yeah. But in recently it's changed to like 70 to 80% male. And when you look at the the one thing I'm not happy about, I'll say is uh we looked at the demographics the other day, which I never do by the way. I never look at like YouTube statistics, but for whatever reason we did the other day. And um we don't have as many young people as I'd like. It used to be the case where when you think of secular talk, when you think of my show, it's like, "Oh, yeah, young people watch that." But no, those people all grew with me, right? So, it's all millennials. There's a lot of millennials, a lot of Gen X in there. Uh, some, I guess you could say, um, older Gen Z maybe, but the younger Gen Z, you know, there's not enough of them there. So, okay, not to be conspiratorial, but like I I did spend quite a lot of time studying the Gen Z media landscape before doing this podcast, and they are not represented. Like you can get internal polling data from a Discord server that I think is a more realistic breakdown of the ages of a certain community. They are not represented in any of the quantitative data from the platforms. And I think there's there's a simple explanation for this one. I think they're often just logged in under like their parents account or some other account where they don't have an email address because they're like 12. Like literally when I was studying the media, uh I'm looking at these meme accounts and seeing how they behave and what kind of like ideological propaganda materials they're putting out and I saw this kid a narco capitalist post a [ __ ] selfie on the bus to school. He's 12. Like this is not represented in the data anywhere. And then I found out, oh, that's the case for all of these [ __ ] accounts. That communist account who's posting about like Kotkin and Bordiga is 15. I know cuz now I've met these people. They're young men who are adults, who are college graduates, who are in the workforce. And for some reason, like I think in your defense that these demographics actually skew a lot younger than the data represents. I think this is the conspiratorial compon like there's a whole bunch of 14year-olds watching like you know extremist political material. So, it's it's in there somewhere and there's got to be some other service that we could look at like I don't know. I feel like Meta might have more accurate data or something like that. But I I just plainly I don't think trust the YouTube analytics. Okay, that that actually makes sense to me because when I was looking I was expecting to see about the same number of like millennial and Gen Z and it just wasn't. It was just like overwhelmingly millennial and and Gen X. Yeah. And but that makes sense. I you know I never considered that but that actually makes perfect sense to me. So, I hope that's true because, you know, I would like to I would like to be the one to help influence the younger generation and not Nick Fuentes. Mhm. I don't want you goostepping by the time you're 21 or whatever. You know, what does progressive politics have to offer young men right now? Everything. Everything. First of all, I'd say literally everything is political from when you wake up till when you go to sleep. Every single thing you do, every single thing you say, where you go to work, where you go to school, all of that is political. Uh, do you have student loan debt? Well, uh, if we go in a left direction, what if I told you school was free? College was free. You know, we don't elementary school, middle school, high school, all that stuff is free. It's paid for by tax money. Nobody thinks about it. Nobody talks about it. It just is paid for, right? Why not do the same thing for college instead of having people saddled with student loan debt and going, you know, into the real world $100,000 or more in debt? I mean, that's horrible. It's horrible scenario to be in. Um, that's just one example. Do you uh smoke weed? Right. Do you want to live in a place where they could lock you up for that? Or do you want to live in a place where, you know, it's you're free to do as as you please? When you go to work, do you want to make uh $725 an hour or do you want to make $15 an hour or $23 an hour? Well, that's going to hinge on do you have good minimum wage laws? Do do are you in a union? Can the union give you uh you know, benefits, uh paid vacation time, and things of that nature? So, literally everything you do is political. being on the left just means hey let's create a society that isn't hell that's how I would describe it and you know that's why it it like this isn't rocket science that a lot of the things we need to do other countries have already done almost every developed country has one version or another of a universal healthare system where you get healthare and it gets taken care of and you don't owe a penny that's it you're done why don't Americans know this I mean look there there's there has been a massive propaganda effort to try to hide stuff like this. I mean, I remember even back during the Obamacare debates, you turn on Fox News and they're talking about how Obama's going to kill your grandma, right? There's death panels, right? And it's like, these people are so off base. Like, we have here's Obama not even trying to shoot for the stars and actually do universal healthcare and get everybody covered. Just like, hey, can we get like some more people covered? Yeah. Yeah. And they say, "Oh my god, you're a communist. You're a socialist. You're trying to kill everybody. You're guavvara." And like, so we're up against this these corporate behemoths. And there's a whole industry built on exploiting people when they're at their worst for healthare. I mean, all health insurance is is a middleman that robs you and gets in between you and your doctor. And like I call it a mafia. It is. It's a mafia. Yeah. And um I don't know the there's just a tremendous amount of propaganda that sort of buries the reality of the situation. I mean, most Americans don't even know that we're like one of the only countries that doesn't have paid vacation time by law. Virtually every other country has paid vacation time by law. We don't. I heard a theory recently that that is on purpose so that Americans can't go to other countries and realize how much better it is. I mean, it kind of makes sense, right? Like if you had like I don't know in Europe you get like seemingly anytime I emailed with someone from Europe they're all on holiday for like I don't know six months out. Take all of August off. Yeah. Right. Exactly. And if Americans had a month to like travel and like go see Europe, for example, they'd be like, "Wait, like the food isn't poisoned and people can go to the doctor and like the streets are clean and it's like everything is nice." Yeah. What if I told you that you could have a summer vacation every year for the rest of your life? Just like we had a summer vacation in school, you know, you get, "Oh, summer's off. Yeah, I tell you that communism killed 100 billion people. I Venezuela." But that's the thing is like people don't know that this is on the menu. This is on the table. We could actually create a better society where people get paid better. People have the basics taken care of. People can have time off and enjoy their lives. People can actually search for meaning in their lives and not just be forced as as a wage slave to do whatever your boss wants you to do, you know, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. And so that's what progressive politics has to offer. It's absolutely everything. And I don't think people really realize the hell world that we currently live in. I mean, we are living in a dystopian capitalist hellscape right now. And um if they don't know it now, they're gonna know it very soon. Especially since you have Elon Musk slashing the pediatric cancer research for kids, meals on wheels getting cut, Medicaid getting cut, even Medicare was cut in that bill because there was a sequester in it. So people are going to learn the hard way that this is uh the direction we went. We chose the bad path. Yeah. Yeah. Do Democrats stand a chance in 2028? Uh yes. If it's a free and fair election, they're going to win in a landslide. In a landslide. Okay. Because um like here's the thing. They're not saying anything and they're not doing anything and they're running and hiding, right? And they're betting on the right is going to implode because they're so terrible. That's the Carville strategy. And here's the thing, that will work. But here's what they don't understand. It will work better if you actually fight. Like the right is going to lose either way if it's a free and fair election. The question is, do you want them to lose by three points or do you want them to lose by 12? And so if you have Democrats who are willing to fight, who are willing to call them out, who are willing to talk about all the horrible things that they did that destroyed the country, willing to run on an agenda that actually helps people, then you'll win by double digits. And so that's the frustrating part is like even though the Democratic Party is at a historically low approval rating right now, which it is, it's in the 30s, in the generic ballot, they're leading by eight against Republicans. And what that shows is correctly so the American people go I [ __ ] hate the Democrats and the Republicans but god damn it we got to get away from these Republicans so I'll vote Democrat. That's where we're at right now. Now imagine a scenario where if you had Democrats who fight right if you had Zoron Mandani who was running the Democrats nationally their strategy then it would be people would be can't wait till the next election to run to the polls and it would be too big to rig even if they try to do all the jerrymandering stuff and whatever nonsense that they want to do. But what I'm really afraid of at the moment though is that it's not free and fair elections. That's what I'm afraid of. Uh because Trump, first of all, the best predictor of future action is past action. He already tried to steal the 2020 election. We don't need to guess. He did it. He tried to steal it. He did the fake elector slates, right? He committed all these crimes in the process. January 6, everybody knows all this stuff. That same He's the same guy now. So, he's going to try. He's building a $200 million ballroom that's 90,000 square feet at the White House. Do you think that guy is going to leave after four years? You think he's thinking of leaving after four years? The the thing is going to be done in like four years. He's going to want to experience it and use it. That's just one example. But between executive orders, he wanted he literally signed an executive order to try to have Elon run the federal elections. That happened early on in his time in office. Now with the gerrymandering fight with Texas, he tells Texas, "Get me five more seats." They go, "Yes, sir. We'll get you five more seats." You got that? I mean, it's it can get ugly. It can get ugly. I really think they're going to try to steal it. And I really think that uh people need to take that threat seriously because we're dealing with a rogue regime that does they blow off court orders too. Even if a court says, "Hey, you can't do this, you can't do that," they blow it off. They do whatever they want. And so to answer your question, yes, Democrats will win. Uh but that's assuming it's free and fair. And that's a big if right now. Kyle Kolinsky, I'm a huge fan of your work. It's uh fantastic to meet you. And um yeah, thank you so much for coming. Thanks for having me, man. Appreciate it. Thanks for listening. To watch part two of this episode, you can support the show on Patreon.