Good evening everyone. Welcome back to the show. It's your host. It's your host Danny Hiong. Thanks for coming out this evening. Uh please do hit the like button before you or as you come on because we have a great show for you today because what we're talking about is much bigger than just a scandal. We are talking about a major trap that was now being exposed by the very people who built it. Newly released Epstein emails have sent shock waves through Trump's circle and really the entire establishment because what's inside them reveals corruption, power, and criminality on a scale that we may have seen before, but uh it is only getting worse and worse as people clamor for the files. Tonight we are joined by uh professor Jang Sue Chin of predictive history, a geopolitical analyst who connects the dots between the elites, secret societies, and the forces driving the collapse of America's empire. Uh, Professor Jang, thanks so much for coming back on the show. It's great to have you. Thanks so much, Danny. Thanks so much for having having me back. Of course. Of course. Well, let's get right to it. many have been paying attention and really diving into these uh major email revelations. And now what we have regarding Epstein is Trump's response. And here it is. Now that the Democrats are using the Epstein hoax involving Democrats, not Republicans, to try to deflect from the disastrous shutdown. And then he goes on and on. He is going to now ask his own attorney general and the Department of Justice and the FBI to investigate Epstein's involvement with the leadership and with the relationships with Bill Clinton, Larry Summers, Reed Hoffman, JP Morgan, on and on and on saying it's another Russia Russia Russia scam. Now what's uh pretty incredible about this uh professor Jang is that uh we are seeing power I think be exposed in real time and I want your take on how this all works because Donald Trump cannot run away from the fact that Jeffrey Epste in these emails said it straight up. He said it is wild. I am the one to be able to take him down. referring to Donald Trump when he was being investigated uh in the first term that he served. So, Professor Jang, maybe you can give us an overview first of how uh power works. I know you've been covering secret societies. What is the conspiracy here? Because just as this was happening, you had Trump begging for Netanyahu to be pardoned and we have a major political crisis and of course the collapsing American empire all coming together. Uh take it away. Yeah, so these Epstein files, these emails, they're being released and um they're really enlightening and they really illuminate for us how power works. So I will give a structural overview of what these emails reveal to us. Okay. The first thing um it reveals to us is that all these people in power, the elite, they're all friends with each other. Um so in public, you know, the Democrats and Republicans, they can be fighting each other, but in reality, they go to the same schools, um they go to the same parties, um they they're just friends with each other. So what you're seeing in public, the sort of like um polit political struggle in public, it's all um just fake. It's like wrestling. Uh it's reality TV. These the elite are all friends with each other. That's the first thing. Um second thing that we've noticed about the um emails is how cavalier the elite are. They think that they're above everyone else. They think they're untouchable. So they just they just speak their minds freely, you know. I mean, Jeffrey Epstein, he was using Gmail in order to make all these sensitive communications. There's absolutely no operation operational security. Um, he didn't really care because he believed he was untouchable. Um, and that's that's how how the elite think and behave. They live in a bubble. They think that they control the world uh and they're untouchable. So they can do they can do what whatever want whatever they want. And all that matters is staying within this bubble, staying close to um each other. The third thing I will say is that these emails don't tell us but we can assume that there are many layers of u networking among the elite. Um so uh so Trey Epstein why was he so popular uh among the elite? Well, I mean, first of all, he he was just a friendly guy who did a lot of networking and was able to bring the elite together. But if you look at go to Epson Island, you will find that there are there's a temple there that's almost designed for ritual sacrifice. So, um, what I've researched and what what I've discovered is that the way that the elite stay together is through rituals, secret society rituals. Why? Because at the at the end of the day, if you're part of elite, your biggest problem is um trust. How can you trust that person to not rat you out in this political struggle? And the answer is well, you blackmail each other, right? So, so you do acts together uh that were considered taboo, including um you know, sex with uh underage children. Um I mean there are lots of transgressions that that you can do and the more trans transgressions you do the more cohesive the elite is. So um unfortunately if you dig deeper into Jeffrey Epstein what you'll find is a lot of um um transgressions both sexual and violent as well bring these social taboos. I mean like as like like like the public I mean it it like like what's really astonishing about the EP Jeffrey Epstein case is that slowly the inner workings of the elite are being revealed to the public and all these conspiracy theories that we once believed couldn't possibly be true um including that the entire um American elite are just a bunch of pedophiles. I mean, they're slowly turning out to be true and and and this marks a radical turning point in American history. Yeah. Yeah. Great point. And you know, to that end, uh, in terms of how flippant all of this is and and you know, there is this email that's been the most recent emails that have been going around. What is so incredible about them is that the more that they are released in this weaponized way, the more we find out. And here is one between Epstein and his and between Epstein's brother Mark and him talking, you know, how are you doing? This is what they're saying. How are you doing? What is your boy Donald up to? Now referring to Donald Trump. Uh Mark Epstein says or he says all good. Bannon is with me. So Steve Bannon. Uh then Mark says ask him if Putin has the photos of Trump blowing Bubba. Uh and then and I thought I had sir. That's what um Jeffrey Epstein said what that mean. That's a Yiddish word for trouble. Uh you and your boy Donnie can make a remake of the movie Get Hard. This is how they're talking to each other on an unsecure server. Uh Professor Jang talking about Bill Clinton and Donald Trump. I mean, this is shocking a lot of people, but uh maybe you can reiterate or reinforce or elaborate on kind of what this really reveals about uh uh uh all of this, what what's going on here? Because what I see is a dying American empire kind of just being exposed without uh really, you know, not by journalists, not by people doing the work, but by themselves. Well, I mean, we also have to remember that um Jeffrey Epstein in his Manhattan penthouse, there's a painting of Bill Clinton in a dress in drag basically. So, um one possible interpretation is that all these politicians that we think are our representatives, um you know, they're all just the play things of the elite. They're just puppets of the elite. U they're just paid actors. They're literally paid actors. And so American democracy has always been a lie. Um, and so Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, they just do the bidding of the powerful. And the powerful are, you know, in their party, secret parties laughing at us, mocking us because um they've been able to deceive us. and and we um every day are fighting over um you know these petty politics that has absolutely nothing to do with real power. So I I think that what these Ipsy emails reveals is the deep contempt that the elite has for the people um and these politicians are nothing more than just these um puppets that the elite um display in front of us to in order to distract our distract us. Everything's being created by by the powerful and so what we see in Washington DC has is has nothing been more than a rally rally TV show. Yeah. Yeah. Great points. Uh, Professor Jang, you know, and it goes deeper than this because I think one of the things that is left out of this conversation has been, we're going to be touching this a lot throughout the program, Israel. Because this is we have to remember this was a limited release uh by the House Oversight Committee by the US government itself, a major uh I guess a slight Democratic party majority. So really it was a partisan thing despite how much the emails really showed. But I want to pull up what are what emails are not being emphasized. And I want to pull up this one in particular uh talking about how Epstein was effectively drafting foreign policy messaging for former Israeli PM Eud Barack who many believe was uh really um instrumental in the Epstein rel they had a very close relationship. Uh I would use the opportunity says Jeffrey Epstein to compare it with Iran talking about Syria. The solutions become more complex with the time I see. I think many people would like your views on Egypt, Syria, etc. Russia's role. I think you might point out that gassing of women and children is an expression of the 20th century. Women are no longer equivalent children, civilians versus combatants only. Literally giving advice, Professor Jang on how Jeffrey Epstein giving advice on how Israel should paint uh uh its you know, US foreign policy. I mean, talk about this. I I think this really blows open the realities of these relationships and how it gets all the way to the level of empire. Yeah. So um the first thing we need to understand is that power um always consolidates and coaleses. What I mean by that is that these intelligence agencies Mossad, CIA, MI6 um they're all you know they're all interlocked together. They're all in alliance together. Um that's the first thing. Second thing is that these um intelligence agencies are also in alliance with different secret societies as well as criminal organizations. Um so from the perspective of uh people like someone like Jeffrey Epstein, he's the real power in the world and that's why he thinks that he can dictate foreign policy to everyone. Okay. So um um I don't think Jeffrey Epstein was actually a spy. I think Gileian Maxwell um his girlfriend was actually the spy. Um and one good piece of evidence for that is that Galileen Maxwell's father, Robert Maxwell, was a notorious spy and he was working for Mossad, um MI6 as well as Russian intelligence, uh the KGB. Um so that's how the powerful works. the powerful are almost like a nexus of all these intelligence agencies, uh, foreign governments, secret societies and criminal organizations. And so they discuss amongst themselves how to best frame issues and how to best push um, uh, events. So you know from the p perspective if you look at if you look at more and more of Jeffrey Epson's emails what you what you would discover is that he he was privy to a lot of geopolitical events and in fact he was actually helping to plan a lot of geopolitical events as well. Yeah. Yeah. And uh let's go dive more deeply now into some of these power players that were revealed to be not to be very close to Jeffrey Epstein where he was literally talking about them with Kathy Rumier who is Obama's uh on Obama's legal council u white house council he says girls when talking to her careful I will renew an old habit mind you uh she says you might get sick of me just sat down on this train you're not managing it anything your time well enough. It's UN General Assembly week. He says this week, Peter Teals, Larry Summers, William Burns, former CIA director, Gordon Brown, a former UK Prime Minister, Jaglin, who is a Nobel Peace Prize chairman, was Mongolian president. He's just naming people. Boris Gates, Bill Gates, everyone who he has contacts with, who he meets with, and says, "I might uh pick up I might renew an old habit." you just your response before we move on. Yeah. So, um I mean first of all it's obvious that everyone in power they're friends with each other. They know they know each other. So this sort of like um struggle between nation states. It's all just um a a curated media show for us. Um it's not it's actually real. What goes on behind the scenes is that these powerful people are all friends. Okay. So, u even though there's wars going on uh between Russia and Ukraine, guess what? The elite of Ukraine and Russia all friends. Guess what? Uh the elite of Europe and Russia and Ukraine and America, they're all friends. They go to the same parties. Um their children go to the same schools. Uh they probably they're probably intermarried with with each other. So, that's really how the world works. And as these more as more and more of these Epstein files are released, the more and more we will discover that the elite is all interconnected. They're just playing us for fools. That I think is is the ultimate message of these file release. Yeah. Yeah. And uh, Professor Jang, you know, in your uh, works you have called America where while Jeffrey Epste seemingly was working for Israel, he was working within the United States and tugging on all of the most powerful people to the point where he was I I mean, a lot of people have been bringing this up. Uh, he had all of this dirt on Donald Trump and then he ended up dead. Could you could you talk about the uh given that we know Jeffrey Epste was a major player in driving US foreign policy was a major drive was majorly connected and was likely conducting some kind of what seemed like a blackmail operation. uh talk about why why is this necessary from the point of view of the the power elite those who are ruling over this empire because uh we have major connections to Israel, major connections to this decaying American empire that now Donald Trump is looking like the kind of uh per the the leader that's falling on the sword so to speak that he is being uh absolutely uh he is being dragged almost as the you know antichrist figure in all of this. Yeah. So the first thing to note is that Jeffrey Epstein is not unique. You go to any major American city, I guarantee you there is a Jeffrey Epstein like figure coordinating among the cities different politicians, celebrities, mafia organizations, secret societies. Okay. So Jeffrey Epstein is a very common character in today's world. Now why is that the case? Well, okay. So let's look at today's world and I will and I will highlight three structural issues with today's world. Okay. The first major problem with today's world is the atomization of society. Meaning that we focus on the individual whereas before in previous societies we focus on the family, the tribe, the clan. Um but nowadays uh we've all been atomized. We've all been individualized that diminish our capacity to work together for the pursuit of certain political ends. Okay, that's the first major problem in today's world. Second major problem in today's world is um globalization, multiculturalism, transnationalism. So people's sense of ethnic identity has been dampened. It's um it's been diluted and so people are less willing to work for um a cultural cohesive cause. Okay, that's second major problem. The third major problem which is the most major problem is the bureaucratization of society. You look at the growth of the federal government uh in in uh Washington DC. Then you look at the growth of the EU superstate uh in uh in Europe. So our lives have become more and more bureaucratic. The problem with this is that bureaucracies are indifferent. They're aloof. They're compartmentalized. Okay. So um all these different departments are siloed off and they cannot coordinate together. So in today's society you have a problem of coordination. How do you get groups to work together? Well you get them to work together mainly for secret societies um and and because secret societies solve three major problems that would benefit uh the members in today's society. The first is secrecy, second is trust and the third is coronation. Okay. So secrecy because you don't want to be discovered, you know. Um if you are discovered, people would think that you're cheating in this game and then they would be you would be outlawed, you' be persecuted. Uh trust is how do you trust members of your society not to um rat you out? And the third is how do you work together for a common cause, coronation? And the solution to all three problems is of course blackmail. Um so you need someone like Jeffrey Epstein and there are lots of people uh like um Jeffrey Epstein to help the elite um coales together through blackmail by engaging in acts of transgression whether it's uh ritual sexual abuse of children which is very common but look there are actually even worse forms of transgression I'm not going to go into them uh because they are disgusting and vile but but but we've all heard rumors um of of this transgression. So that's why we have blackmail today. That's why someone like Jeffrey Epstein is everywhere in society. Um and that's why we need someone like Jeffrey Epstein because the only way for the elite to work together is through blackmail. Otherwise, they don't trust each other. Otherwise, they'll go to war um with each other. So something something I will say uh with regard to Donald Trump is that people forget that Trump's first mentor and his most influential teacher was actually Ray Cole. Okay, if you look at Ray Cole, if you look at that at history, he was actually the original Jeffrey Epstein. Um he was um part of the Washington gay mafia and he specialized in blackmailing politicians. He was very good friends with Jay Edgar Edgar Hoover. they they went to each other's um parties um where they engaged in all these sort of like homosexual endeavors and they had pictures of each other. So um Roy Cole was the original Jeffrey Epstein and he was the mentor of Donald Trump. So what did Donald Trump learn from Roy Cole? He learned how to blackmail other people but most importantly and this is this is really important for us to understand is he learned how to avoid being blackmailed. So, another thing that I will say about Donald Trump is that he's a tea toddler. He does not drink. This is really weird because we've known him as a playboy ever since the 1980s and he's always dating the, you know, these beautiful women. He's he's always throwing these lavish parties. He's always hanging out with um the most famous, the most wealthy. And he himself, even though he's organizing his parties, does not touch alcohol or drugs. Why? because he learned from Roy Cole, that's how they get you. Okay? The worst thing that can happen to you is blackmail. So, I guarantee you these emails that are coming out, there's no dirt on this guy. If there was any dirt on this guy, Donald Trump, we we would have seen it in 2016 or 2020 when the elite spent $6 billion to get rid of Donald Trump. Okay? So, I'm telling you right now, there's absolutely no blackmail on Donald Trump. I'm also telling you that blackmail is just a way of life among the powerful. Yeah. Well, what's interesting about this from what you're saying then, Professor Jang, is that uh Donald Trump has been melting down about this. So, I guess we can talk about why because we've seen now there's a lot of conversations that have been happening since early on in this Epstein saga. You know, the Trump administration promised to release these files and then broke that promise. And here is what some people are bringing up. Here is uh many he had many run-ins with the mainstream media about this. Here is just one lingering mysteries. One of the biggest ones is whether he ever worked for a American or foreign intelligence agency. Um the former labor secretary who was uh Miami US attorney um Alex Costiki allegedly said that he did work for an intelligence agency. So could you resolve whether or not he did? And also, could you say why there was a minute missing from the jail house tape on the night of Yeah, sure. If I could I just interrupt a second? Are you still talking about Jeffrey Epstein? This guy's been talked about for years. You're asking, "We have Texas. We have this. We have all of the things." And are people still talking about this guy, this creep? That is unbelievable. So, that was his response there. But this uh has had a major impact on the what many are calling the MAGA base and uh it has been angered by this and Trump has lost many prominent figures including Candace Owens who commented on this situation. Here it is. Seems to have been hiding these emails. They're not good. Okay, they are completely indefensible. But I already told you I was done with MAGA at the moment he looked us in the face and he said what files, right? What? What are we still talking about? Jeffrey Epstein. Pam Bondi said it was a Democrat hoax. No, I I think the entire nation has been hoaxed by Republicans and Democrats and there are pervert elites that sit at the top. So that was her response. Professor Jang, you know, given if there is no dirt on Trump, why would he hide it then? Because in the emails, uh, what it was proven was that he had deep associations. Of course, we don't have proof that he took part necessarily in any of the activities beyond the fact that uh it seems like Virginia group Frey was saying that she didn't want to run into Trump uh should Jeffrey Epste not be there. So your your assessment? Yeah, so we know um from news reporting that Epstein and Trump go all the way back. Um they've known each other ever since the 1980s. Um and they they used to be best friends. Uh Epstein was a frequent uh visitor to Mara Lago and they had a falling out because um Trump believed that Epstein was stealing uh his um his workers to go work for for himself. Um and so they had a falling out and there's actually rumors that Trump uh was one of the informants that um that um um landed Epstein in in trouble the law in in in the first place and this this is back in the early 2000s. So um Epstein and Trump had a falling out. Okay. So that's that's something that that that we we know. Uh that's number one. Number two is that it's as you say, it's really interesting that Trump doesn't want to talk about Epstein. In fact, uh he's done a lot to suppress the Epstein files. Um so why would he do that? So, okay, now let's do a thought experiment. U it's really important for us to do a thought experiment to understand what's going on. The year is so so we go back a year. Donald Trump has just won the presidency and let's just assume what a second term would look like. We would think that in the in the uh business world, Ellen Musk would be his main backer because Ellen Musk gave $100 million to Trump's um campaign, right? We would also expect that in the media there would be three individuals that would be more supportive of Trump. Nick Fuentes, Taco Carlson, Kenneth Owens. Okay. And we can also expect within the US Congress, Trump would have some diehard supporters that would do whatever he wants. Okay. And um the two that that would come most readily to mind are MTG, Marjorie Taylor Green as well as Lauren Bobett. Why? Because during the first term, these were these two were the most diehard Trump MAGA supporters. Okay? So that's what we expect. Now, what is the reality? The reality is that with Ellen Musk, he had a falling out with Donald Trump. You know, he had a black eye, then he left the White House, and and after he leaves the White House, he has this tweet and and he and he's basically like Trump's in the Epstein bios. Mark my words. Okay, that's kind of strange. Then uh you have Nick Fuentes, Kenneth Owens, Taro Carlson turning against Trump uh and in fact doing as much as possible to embarrass uh the Trump administration. Now you look at Congress, these Epstein files are being released because four members, four Republican members of Congress have sided with the Democrats in voting for uh their release. Okay, these four Republicans are Thomas Massie, Nancy Mace, and Marjorie Taylor Green, and Lauren Bobbit. In fact, what we know is that Pen Bondi had a very long meeting with Lauren Bobbit trying to tell her, "Hey, man, don't switch sides. Don't vote for the release of these files. The president will be very angry at you." Okay, so this is really weird. The people that we expect to most support Donald Trump in the second term have now turned against him. This makes no sense because what did Donald Trump do to piss these people off. So, and also like as as I keep on saying, there's absolutely no blackmail on on this guy because a guy like Donald Trump, he has been breaking a law in his entire life and getting away with it. So he knows how to skirt the law. He knows how to not get in trouble with the law. And he knows how to be careful of of someone like Jeffrey Epstein who cannot keep his mouth shut. Okay. So there's I don't think there's any dirt on this guy. I I'd be very surprised if the Epstein files implicate Trump in any manner. I understand yes Trump is named a lot in his files and I understand that yeah Trump um likes to be seen with underage girls. I mean he he was in charge of these like Miss Teen USA pageantss. Okay. So there's nothing really surprising about these Epstein files. So the question is why is this happening? And I have a theory. Okay. And this theory could be completely idiotic. Okay. But but but I I propose this theory. It's all a show. It's a Trump show. It's all an illusion. Okay. These Epstein files do not implicate Trump. but he wants to create a spectacle around the Epcene Files. You know, he was um part of the World Wrestling Federation for a long time. He was and he had his own TV show, The Apprentice, for a long time. So, he he understands TV show plotting. He understands how to maximize an audience emotional reaction to a certain event. What he's doing is creating tension, right? He could release the tension the Epson files um like many months ago and we would go over the Epson files and we'd be like what is this crap? This is this tells us nothing that we don't already know. We know Bill Clinton. We know Bill Gates. We know Larry Summers. We know Jamie Diamond. We're all part of the Epstein circle and they all visit Epstein. We all know we all we know all this, right? So how do you create a visceral hatred for the Democrats and for the elite among the people? What you do is you create as much tension as possible by making this Epstein files as seemingly secretive as possible. But not only that, but you create a situation in which the people are begging for the Epstein files so that when new information comes out, they become more and more agitated. They become more and more violent. That's what we're seeing today. Okay. So, remember what's happening. Remember what's happening is that while the uh House Oversight Committee um the Democrats are releasing more and more files with Trump being implicated, Trump has announced that they will launch an investigation of Bill Clinton and his ties with Epstein. And before people would be like, "This is partisan. Trump is clearly going after Democrats." But now people are like, "Oh, well this makes sense because we want more information released about about Epstein. Release all the files." Okay. So, um, this is all theater. This is all an illusion. Trump is not implicated in ets files, but Bill Clinton, Bill Gates, Larry Summers, Jimmy Diamond, the the main leaders of the Democratic party in many ways in and it's possible that eventually um um Podesta, John Podesta will be implicated as well. Okay, we're seeing Trump slowly use lawfare to go after his Democratic enemies. Um, and it, you know, it's quite quite honestly it's entirely possible that one day Trump will use lawfare against Obama as well. So, I know this sounds strange. I know it sounds like a conspiracy theory, but just look at the facts before you. Yeah. Well, that's that's an interesting take, President Jar. From what I see from these emails, while they don't, you know, I think a lot of people are seeing a smoking gun on a lot of these emails given that uh Jeffrey Epstein was hanging out with him during his presidency, was in the Trump Tower. So many things have been revealed about their relationship. A and Jeffrey Epste in these emails himself said that, you know, he's the the dog that's barking, so to speak, around this particular victim. So it would be interesting, you know, but at the same time it it it's a very limited release. So we don't necessarily know everything and we don't know how far this goes. But we do know that Donald Trump was in the situation room right after this trying to discipline his uh you know u colleagues like uh Lauren Boowbert uh who is a representative in Congress. they're voting on uh releasing these files and uh it seems like the Trump administration was trying to discipline her to not go along with this and she ended up rescending. So would you say that this is all theater because it does look like we are being taken down this road of uh these files are in the conversation. The problem for Donald Trump is that it actually is hurting him quite badly in terms of his own base. Uh you said Candace Owens, Nick Fuentes, these folks are going against him now. They are uh they are and they a lot of reason a lot of the reason is because of this because he he didn't fulfill this pro promise to release the files. Your thoughts? Look, it's all tension and release. It's all theater, right? Because um you know, you you look at World Wrestling Federation, okay? People love those who they hate and people love redemption story. Okay, so Trump Yeah. Yeah. He's got 36% approval ratings and his base has turned against him and Tor Carlson, Nick Fantes, um Dave Smith all talking trash about him. But so what you know what does it matter? What matters is in 2028 that election. That's what matters because Trump has the intention of running for a third term. That's the key. Okay. Also, what's the key what's key is that we can expect more political violence in America over the next few years. Um the the sort of the sort of political consensus has it's broken down. Uh there's this major infighting among the elite that these Epstein fouls are revealing to us. So Trump needs a street army on his side. And what he's doing is that he's messaging to the MAGA. Listen, the real enemy is the elite. Um the elite has me cornered. Okay. The elite the elite has blackmail on me and that's why I'm begging for help. You know, like like like there's nothing I can do. Uh if Nahu wants me to go bomb Iran, I can't do anything about it. If um the deep state wants me to go bomb Venezuela, I can't I can't do anything about it. I'm being held hostage, save me. Okay, that's that's slowly the message being sent to his base. Okay, I know it sounds weird, but what we need to understand is that look, watch a football game or watch a basketball game. These athletes are superstars. They're able to do things that are unimaginable to us. these politicians, Donald Trump, um um MTG, uh Tom Thomas Massie, they're able to have a six sense of political winds, of how the of how America, the mood in America is developing and how to best manipulate it through nuance. Okay. They're able to ride that wave. So again, I know this sounds crazy, but like let's how things play out over the next few months. Yeah. No, I mean it look look uh this is a moment right now and it looks really bad. Uh and you know this is one of the worst uh I think starts to a presidency in a long time. But at the same time we were talking about this there there's elites pulling strings for real policy which I think we can get to now this what isn't being talked about and at all really when it comes to these emails and that is the role of Israel. And I want to pull up this. Um, Professor Jang, Caitlin Johnstone, great uh, journalist, does great analysis, pulled up a bunch of headlines that, you know, uh, stories that have been coming out in recent weeks, many of them from Drop Site News, uh, you know, and I'll just pull them up here. Israeli spy safe for weeks at a time with Jeffrey Epstein in Manhattan. leaked emails show Epstein working on a wire transfer to Ahoud Barack's top aid Yoni Corin who regularly stayed at his apartment. Jeffrey Epstein helped broker Israeli security agreement with Mongolia. Jeffrey Epste and the Mossad. How he helped Israel build a back channel to Russia amid serious war, although there was no real back channel that was proven to be but there was talks about it. Jeffrey Epste helped Israel sell a surveillance state to Kotto Dvoir. So, Professor Jang, this is what isn't being talked about. Uh, help us understand then the role of Israel in all of this. Um, what is the true power dynamic, the true power relationship? Why is it turning out like this? And why are these Epstein files so important to understanding all of this? Um, so issue is a very complicated issue. Um, and again, I'm going to go on a limb and um, give everyone a controversial take. The Jewish identity, the Jewish people is a creation of empire. It's a construct of empire. So, I know this. So, let me slowly explain what's going on and and and please be patient. Okay. So, um, the Jewish people, the the the term Jews, uh, came from the Persian Empire. And I would argue that uh Israel is a construct of the Persian Empire. Okay. So, um I know that in the Bible um you know the Bible says that the Jews come from Abraham uh who lived like 4,000 years ago. But if you just look at the real history um Israel was a creation of the Persian Empire. Why? Well, because if you look at a map at that time in history, uh the Middle East was the wealthiest part of the world. You had Anatolia, you had me Egypt, you had Mesopotamia, uh you had the Mediterranean and the Aian. And the center of this world was the Levant. Whoever controlled the Levant controlled the world. Um so uh Cyrus the great he had just conquered Babylon and he discovered that there were these um captives from the former um state of Judah. Uh these are the protojews and the policy for the Persians is divide and rule. Okay. So um to create as much these instability in a border area as much as possible as to maintain control. Right? Because if you if the region is unstable, the empire empire has reason to exert control, but also much more importantly, you prevent another power from arising within your borderlands. So um at this time in history, this this would up the year 500 um common era. Um Judah and Samra were pretty peaceful places. There were there were Jews, Israelites who had converted into the local polytheistic religion. At this time in history, most mo most people in that area was polytheistic and people got along really really well. They intermarried together. And then along comes this guy Ezra, okay? And he's the governor um um who is sent by Persia in in order to recreate the Jewish identity. Okay? and and and he immediately proclaims that if you're a Jewish man and you want to make be still be Jewish, you must divorce your wife if you marry into a different religion. Okay? And this creates a lot of conflict. This creates a lot of instability. Ezra is the one who gives us the modern day Bible because he needs to construct this um issue identity. Now, why is this important? This is important because this is the same trick. This is the same um um strategy that the British will use when they become an empire. Okay. So at this time in history uh they since 1700 1800 Jerusalem the Levant is is is being controlled by the Ottoman Empire. Okay. So the Ottoman Empire is a great geopolitical rival to the British. So how do you destabilize the Ottoman Empire? Well, you promote Zionism. Okay, you promote the idea that this land is um the promised land that God promised to Abraham and therefore the Jews have a right to it. And um at first this idea wasn't very popular but then uh starting about 100 100 years ago uh with the publication of uh theorell's book um fatherland uh in German calling for the creation of a zionist state uh then it start to gain more and more traction. Okay, so this is what we have to remember. Israel is a construct of empire in order to destabilize the region and Israel has been doing doing a great job of that. Um, you know, before the arrival of of Israel, before the Sus project, Jews in the Middle East got along really well with Muslims. In fact, throughout history, it's the Christians that were mainly to blame for the persecution of Jews. The Muslims have always been protective of Jews. So in 1492 when the Spaniards expelled the Jews, it was the Ottoman Empire that took them in. Um the Jews um you know climbed to position of power and authority within the Islamic caliphate. Uh they've always been well respected. Um going back to the 1950s and the 1940s, uh the Jews were welcome in Baghdad. They were welcome in Tran. They were welcome throughout the middle Middle Middle East. But uh the Zionist project was is being fueled by anti-semitism and they need manpower. So these Zionists were conducting all these terrorist attacks in Baghdad. The Jews no longer felt safe in Baghdad. So they start to immigrate to um uh to Israel. So that's something that we have to keep in mind that Israel is the pitbull of empire. It's a country of empire in order to destabilize the Middle East. And that's what Israel is today. uh America is using Israel in order to destabilize the the Middle East in order to maint so so so that's why we keep on hearing about Israel. You know uh Jeffrey Epstein has long been considered an Israeli intelligence asset of some kind. Um I'm curious on where that factors into all of this given uh his extensive involvement with some of the most important people, most powerful people dictating US foreign policy, dictating empire um and of course uh you know using channels like Israeli intelligence um in all of this. Your thoughts? Look, Jeremy Epstein was definitely Mossad operative, but he was definitely a CI operative, and he could have been operative for the Russians, for um uh the British. Okay? So, the way that these spies work is that they're all they're all double agents, triple agents. Uh and that's why they're so effective because they're able to be a nexus of different power power uh elites. So, so definitely Jeffrey Epstein was a MSAD operative, but did did have loyalty to Israel? Maybe, maybe not. Was he good friends with um uh Israel? Absolutely. But people like Jeffrey Epstein, they're all psychopaths. They're they're first and foremost loyal to themselves. And they they use their power, they they use their connections in order to amass more and more um personal power uh to themselves. Uh look, the the reality is that uh America is turning against Israel and um there's no stopping this. Um, and I think one thing that we'll see over the next few years is just a surge in anti-inist settlement in in America. And this Jeffrey Epstein is it will be a catalyst for for that. And and and you know what uh American the American people are absolutely right in that uh their foreign policy should not be held hostage. the foreign foreign policy should not be be dictated by any uh foreign nation. Uh it makes absolutely no sense that Apac is not register foreign agent in um uh America. So I think that one thing that Donald Trump will do in the next couple years, possibly sooner, is that he will ask for Apac to be registered as a foreign agent. And this will create a firestorm in American politics that we've never seen before. You know, uh, Professor Jang, uh, as all this drama around, you know, we have MAGA splits, Candace Owens, these types moving away from Donald Trump around Epstein. Uh, as the emails came out, uh, preh US President Donald Trump begged for a pardon for Benjamin Netanyahu. uh uh he pardoned a major billionaire, a former Spurs owner, British billionaire who you know was involved in insider trading. How do you think all of this factors into uh what's going on here in the current atmosphere? Is is the U you call the US or America anti-vilization. Is this anti-vilization going up in smoke? The American empire is definitely in decline. So uh let me respond to uh this Trump Netanyahu relationship. So what happened was that um after the Gaza ceasefire, Trump flew to Israel and give a speech uh in the Kasset and um he he seen out two individuals. The first is Benjamin Nanyahu and the second is Miriam Aden. And what he said um is that hey guys we should give Benj Nanyahu a pardon man and then um he got and Na got a got to send an ovation. You look at N's face at that moment uh he was mortified because what Trump was implying uh is that Na Na is starting all these wars um around the Middle East in order to not go to prison. Okay. So, so Trump made a point of embarrassing Nanyahu in the Knesset in front of the entire uh Israeli people. Okay. Then he also sent out Miriam Adlesen. Uh he he told a story of how he once had a conversation with Miriam Adlesen and he asked her uh do you love America or do you love Israel more? And Miriam would not answer. And Trump said to the Knesset again um in front of the entire nation uh in in front of these live cameras he said oh well this tells us that Marinism loves Israel more. Okay so he's basically saying that Morason has traitor to America. This is not complimentary. Trump has is basically trolling um his biggest supporter Miam Aden as well as Netanyahu who and and so um I mean I if you are just watching what's happening you don't think that Nanyahu and Trump are friends in fact you think that they absolutely hate each other so so it's a very complicated um uh relationship and so what's really going on I think is that you have a decline of empire um I mean as you're saying and when an empire declines what often happens is the elites attack each other. Okay. So Peter Turchin um has a theory called elite overp production and this is what explains the decline of empires that you have too many people who want these too few positions of elite status in which they can extract rent from everyone else. So another way a way of saying this is that everything that Trump is doing is ultimately to target the deep state to reveal who they are. Okay? To reveal who they are, what they want, and how they work so that the American people can rise up and overthrow the deep state. Now maybe this is all just conspiracy. But if we understood in this way that Israel is a pet project of the existing deep state and Trump wants to over the deep state. So he wants to create all its problems for Israel. that can help us understand a lot of what a lot of of what's going on because remember the people who are most attacking Israel in the media Nick Fantes Kenneth Owens Park Tucker Carlson they are they used to be adamant Trump supporters so why they have a falling out um also remember that Kenos Owens be is blowing up on the internet because of Charlie Kirk right and what she's saying what she's implying is that Israel is um was responsible for the Charlie Kirk assassination because Charlie Kirk didn't want Trump to bomb Iran. Okay, that's that that's what she's implying. So, a lot of sentiment is turning against Israel. Also remember that what's happening right now is that Larry Ellison has bought Tik Tok uh which was u for the longest time one of those weird platforms in which you can criticize the genocide in Gaza. his son has bought um CBS Viacom and installed Barry Weiss, a very well-known Zionist as uh editor-inchief of CBS News. Okay. So, this does not seem like Israel is getting power in America. It seems more like desperation. It seems like more like they're being revealed. Um they're they're being attacked and they uh feel as though they have no choice but to defend themselves. So um it's almost like a fight orflight mentality. So we are seeing I think the end of Zionism in America. I really think that these next two to three years there'll be concerted attack against uh Zionism in America which implicates the deep state. Okay? Because the deep state is first and foremost a Zionist um organization. The deep the deep the deep state and Zionism are almost intermarried with with with each other. So if you attack Zionism, you're also attacking the deep state as well. So I think that's that's what's happening. Would you say then based on your take here that people like Candace Owens for example, their opposition to Trump, which they say is because of Epstein and also because of Trump's inability to stop the genocide of Palestinians in Gaza. Would you say that those reasons that they that people like her, Tucker Carlson have given are disingenuous? Like they it's not the stated reason um that there really isn't a reason why they should be breaking from Trump. What's your take on that? Yeah, I I think look uh emails tell us that journalists are political operatives, right? So if you look at uh Michael Wolf, you look at Thomas Landon of New York Times, they were basically acting like um um political strategist for Epstein. Okay. So you know for someone like Kenneth Owens, Tucker Carlson, Nick Fantes to reach the level of fame and power that they have in America, they need to be able to read the political winds properly. Okay? So, I'm not saying that Donald Trump and Kenneth Owens talk on the phone and discuss strategy. They don't do that. But Kenneth Owens has a read on Donald Trump. He has he has a read on his intentions. She reads the political winds in America. She knows where the magnet base is going. And she positions herself in a position that allows her to speak the truth in a way that is also political advantage to her. And that's why they're so successful because they're able to have a six sense of where political winds are shifting and how to best position yourself in a certain place that allows you that allows the wind to ride you to success. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean Tara Carlson's history, he has a history of being close to, if not an operative of the CIA, especially during the years of the US dirty war in Nicaragua. So um that history is never really spoken of. So for me you know uh while it's understandable that uh these figures can play a positive role for especially those who follow them in opposing things like Ukraine, Iran war, Gaza. Yeah. Yeah, it wouldn't be a surprise to me if all that was was political winds because they jumped on it when things were going south and that sentiment was already there even if they've built upon it. But please no I mean look to Carson his father was CI operative right and he's trying to keep it secret for a long long time. Um I mean like I think in an interview he once said you know I said that he he really doesn't know what his father does. Like how how do you not know what your father does like like like like you know does you like you know Tos was for the longest time trying to pretend that his father was a journalist. Okay. So his father was a CIA operative but also much more importantly he was very high up in the CIA. He was part of a major CI faction. and sort of tin grew up in that sort of environment even today he's probably very close with the CIA and as you mentioned in his in his 20s he once went he once went to Naaga and he uh and he had this you know picture of a gun you know standing with CI offers and he was very proud of that when he interviewed uh Putin Putin said to him hey uh I know that you once applied to the CIA and they rejected you they don't reject uh a son of a CI operative um what what they probably what the probably said Taro is like, you know, you're probably more useful to us if you worked as a journalist, right? You everyone he sort of operation mockingb bird um, you know, a project to embed journalists into uh the media to better control, right? So someone like um uh Bob Bernstein of um uh the of of um of Watergate fame, I mean, sorry. Uh Bob Wart, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Sorry. Bob Wward, he is clearly clearly a CIA asset. If you just read his books, if you look at his role in um Watergate, okay, this this guy who's like in his mid20s, gradu from Yale, was probably in Skones, joins the Navy, he's a naval intelligence officer. He quits that and he joins the Washington Post metro um section. Guess what his first assignment is? It's Watergate. Who the hell does that? Who the hell gets assigned Watergate as his first assignment? No reporting experience, no connections whatsoever. This guy gets Watergate. So, um, the media, it's all CIA. I'm sorry, it's not all CIA, but but but you know what I mean. Like like like a lot there's a lot of u media that's CIA. I mean, Operation Mockingbird, right? I mean, that's that's a classic um classic reality that uh we need to definitely fess up to. Well, before we close on the story and move on to a different one, Professor Jang, maybe summarize uh how your research uh really can help us explain this particular moment not only with Epstein but also this kind of crumbling of the Trump administration and of course this uh larger problem of the US is uh declining power. Um I mean the reality is that America is an empire and never before in human history um has an empire done any good in this world. Um so let me explain what I mean. If you look at historically the three ways in which people get rich, okay, what are three major sources of wealth? Well, they are slavery. Okay, which includes human trafficking, prostitution. It includes debt which includes gambling and finance. The last thing is drugs um smuggling. So you look at the opium wars in which basically uh Britain turned China into a slave state. Um that appar apparatus never went away right because you need a very sophistic apparatus to run that sort of operation where you enslave an entire nation using opium. That apparatus became the financial centers of the world. Hong Kong, uh, Paris, New York, London. Um, so that's what finance is based on. It's all based on money laundering for for for drugs. And that's what an empire is. An empire um uh exercise power, creates wealth through these three uh uh major mechanisms. So an empire is a nexus of organized crime, secret societies, intelligence agencies, the most evil powerful people in the world. So that the American so so now that the American empire is declining, we should be celebrating. Okay? Because uh hopefully there'll be less evil in the world um because of the decline um of of empire. At the same time, what we do know is that when empire declines, it never goes peacefully. Okay? It clings on the power um in a way that could cause entire world to be destroyed. So that's what we're seeing today. That's why we're seeing these wars all around all around the world right now. Yeah. Well, you know, you've covered Iran in particular, that war that nearly blew up into a world war. Some say the World War III is ongoing, but uh Professor John, I want your comments on, you know, there are major escalations relating to Venezuela right now. And I just want to pull up uh what uh Secretary of War Pete Hegsth had to say about it. Recently announcing Operation Southern Spear, led by the Joint Task Force Southern Spear and Southcom, the US Southern Command. This mission defends homeland, removes narot terrorists from our hemisphere and secure hemisphere and secures our homeland from drugs killing our people. The western hemisphere is America's neighborhood. We will protect it. So, sounds familiar. Sounds like the Monroe Doctrine, Professor John. And then I just want to pull up um some of this buildup here. We have major US destroyers coming off of uh the coast of Venezuela now even operating in Venezuela's exclusive economic zone just 50 kilometers from the capital Karakas. Um 20 boats have been struck uh in the recent period by the short administration killing dozens and uh many and and governments like Colombia saying that those who survived and came back to shore and were you know uh legally tried and they weren't they weren't archetterists they were or naroterists whatever that is they were you know poor laborers. Professor Jung, talk about this uh coming war. It's uh what's your assessment of it? Where does it fit within the overall context? Maybe even if you want to bring in game theory, your assessment of where this fits. It it it reminds me a lot of Iran to be honest, but but please your thoughts. Right. So we have to remember that this uh Venezuela affair it comes right after Trump's meeting with Putin in anguage Alaska in mid August. So after that meeting uh Trump starts to deploy uh destroyers towards Venezuela and as you say there's just there's just gradual but very forceful buildup of naval power right now uh off the coast of Venezuela. Um, so that's very curious. Why would that happen? Why would why would it that you know Trump is trying to negotiate peace in Ukraine? He's met with Putin and we can assume that there'll be more meetings. But um what's happened instead of moving towards peace is that Trump has um deployed destroyers to Venezuela. But also much more importantly, we see a Russian um breakthrough in Ukraine. So the entire Ukrainian front lines are collapsing. It seems very much that NATO will have no choice but to come into the war at some point in order to shore up the front lines of of Ukraine to prevent a a complete implosion. Um so this is all very curious. Now I don't know why this happening but I do find the timing very suspicious. Okay, that's point one. Point two is that no one has figured out why this is happening. Okay, so we can say it's for oil, but look, the reality is this. The reality is that if you're America and you need oil, you can buy it from Venezuela really, really cheap. It is much more problematic. It is much more expensive, much more consequential for you to go invade a country to steal its oil than to just, you know, buy off the elite and grab the elite and steal its oil. Okay? Uh that's what America's been doing for the past 100 years. It's worked out really well. So why would you go invade Venezuela? Also the oil issues is problematic because um oil is actually pretty capital intensive to refine in uh Venezuela. You need a lot of pretty uh high-grade technology. It's very uh capital intensive. It's labor intensive. It's it's it's it's it's cost prohibit prohibitive and that's why you know Venezuela has not been has not risen to the ranks of great oil powers in the way that Saudi Arabia has. So, I know that Venezuela has the world's um um largest oil reserves, but it's pretty hard to access, pretty expensive to access it. So, the oil thing doesn't really make sense. Now, some people say, well, it's just geopolitical in that, you know, Russia is about to win the war and um Ukraine and so America needs to show off its hijgemony by beating up a uh beat up Venezuela. Well, yeah, I understand that argument, but it doesn't really make sense either because like who would take you seriously if you go invade Venezuela. Also, um, remember that Venezuela, it's mountainous, so it's very hard to invade and occupy and defend Venezuela. So, you could go and attack Venezuela, that's fine, but what does that really get you? And also it could turn into quagmire where you have you have um troops in Venez Venezuela and they are attacked by uh by guerrilla warfare by it's asymmetrical warfare. So from a military perspective um attacking Venezuela doesn't really make any sense. It really doesn't get you um anything. Okay. Um also if you attack Venezuela you're going to create a um dumpster fire in Latin America because you still have to deal with Cuba. you still have to deal with um Nicaragua. There are lots of enemies that the United States has to deal with in Latin America. Latin America is a huge place. Do you really want to be you really want to send millions of soldiers to occupy and colonize um Latin America? So, it doesn't really make any sense what's happening. So, let me offer you an explanation, okay? And I I don't know if this um explanation makes any sense, but I'm going to offer you my explanation and and we can just wait and see what happens to see if this theory makes any sense. Okay? So, the Trump administration says that they're doing this to stop uh the flow of drugs into America. And everyone's like, well, that's because most of the drugs is coming from Mexico or Canada. It's not coming from Venezuela. This makes no sense. Okay, but let's just assume that what Trump says has validity. That in fact they are targeting drugs. Well, why would they do that? Um, so a theory is that this is part again of the elite civil war going on in America right now between the nationalists and the globalists. Remember I just said that an empire engages in drug smuggling as a way to generate wealth for its elite members. And drug smuggling is a very important component of the global financial economy. Right? because uh city of London, Wall Street, Hong Kong, Dubai, uh they're all designed really to launder money. So when you attack drug flow uh when you stop drug flow, that creates a lot of problems for the elite. So okay, given that we have this theory, how can we test it out? Well, if we if this theory um uh makes any sense, then one, I don't think United States will actually attack Venezuela. The point of this huge naval presence is actually disrupt the um the the the the trade the drug smulling going on. Okay. Second is that I think Trump may turn his attention to the Mexican cartels because that's where the real money is, right? these Mexican drug cartels that are really controlled by the CIA and um the uh global deep state and the financial elite of the world. So I think that I I cannot possibly imagine the United States launching a ground invasion of Venezuela. It makes it would make absolutely no sense. I could foresee though operations against Mexican cartels. Um um so so so that's what I think and I could be completely wrong. Okay, I'm just speculating because like I actually no idea what's going on. Well, let's keep up with this. You know, the the Trump administration has said they're pondering land strikes, right? They're they're pondering all sorts of options on the table. Um, but they've been doing this for quite a long time. I mean, we're talking about weeks now, weeks and weeks and weeks, foreshadowing, foreshadowing. Um what do you make then of uh what some have said is kind of another attempt to uh knock off another chess piece uh uh uh in this larger building multi-olar world because Venezuela's relationship to Russia to China to Iran is pretty strong. Um and uh even Venezuela's president Nicholas Maduro has been talking a lot about this. Uh what's your thoughts on this? and then we can get into some of the consequences after this. I have something I want to show you, but please first this. Yeah. So, um I you know I I hate to say this but I don't think American policy makers America American foreign policy elite they think that far ahead. I think the problem with Washington DC right now is that it's become very bureaucratic, very corrupt. So, it's always like short-term interest. In other words, let's not think about how the United States benefits. Let's ask ourselves how a certain faction of American policy elite benefits from an attack uh against Venezuela. Now, we know that if America were to attack Iran, well, this would benefit a lot of political factions within the US deep state. Okay? So, you have the Zionists, um you have um the financial elite who want to better control trade in the Middle East. you have these oil interests, you have the military-industrial complex. So I I don't know which faction, the American foreign policy elite would actually benefit from a war in Venezuela. So that so so so that's that's how I see the world. I mean like another way of saying this is the conflict within nation states is far more intense uh far more violent and far more important significant than the conflict between nation states. Okay. So I think that what's happening in Venezuela, it's more it's driven more by conflict within Washington DC as opposed to geopol geopolitical um calculations against Russia and uh Iran and China. Now uh I want to show you something for Sir Jang because there are major consequence to all these wars. I know you've uh talked a lot about the consequences of what will happen in a possible um war uh uh with Iran and Venezuela seems to have some of these elements to it, especially this point that you made about uh how uh people uh you know the the a military occupation or an invasion could have major consequences on how people view uh you know the United States in this region and I want to show this. This is a video of Nicholas Maduro as there is literally basically a bounty on his head. The United States is actively attempting to uh regime change him which often means kill or uh kidnap. Here is Nicholas Maduro. 13,000 US wrong video. Let's let let me remove that. Um, here we go. This is why Streamyard has become absolutely unusable. Here we go. What is your message to the people of the United States? President to unite for the peace of the continent. No more endless wars. No more unjust wars. No more Libya. No more Afghanistan. Do you have a message for President Trump? My message is yes. Peace. Yes. Peace. And it's so interesting, Professor John, because a lot of people who are pushing, especially the I will call them the MAGA astroturf uh uh section of the uh social media class, they've been saying, "Look how weak he looks when he's in the middle. I mean, he he has a bounty on his head. The CIA has announced that they have operations inside of Venezuela, and he's walking around amongst people saying, "No war. No, we don't want war. We don't want this to be another Libya which had a big blowback effect. Talk about what could be the blowback effect here because uh Pete Hexath is talking about almost like Monroe Doctrine 2.0 on steroids. I don't know how that would go down in Latin America should this occur. What's your take? Listen. Um, if we assume that Donald Trump is interested in igniting a civil war in America, if Donald Trump were interested in accelerating the collapse of American empire, then that helps us explain exactly why he's doing what he's doing, right? Because as you say, when you send off this massive naval force and threaten the people of Venezuela, what they will do is they will rally behind their leader. they and this leader will become almost invincible. Now, but not only that, but many Latin American countries will rally um um and support Venezuela as well. You're almost like uniting all of Latin America against the US Empire. So, why doing this? I don't know. Okay. But like one data point is remember like um during the Canadian elections um Mark Carney uh was um the liberal candidate and Donald Trump said hey you know we should make Canada our 51st state and he he was joking about annexing Canada and Mark Carney who was part he's leader of the Liberal Party and Liberal Party has been in power in Canada for like 10 years and they were extremely disliked. Okay, Canadians just hate the Liberal Party. But because Trump was saying this crap, okay, he's saying, you know, like, you know, let's annex Canada. Carney surged in the polls and he's still in power. The Liberal Party is still in power. So, you're like like either this guy Donald Trump is the dumbest guy in the world or he's the smartest guy in the world. Either like the guy is completely incompetent or he's playing like five dimensional dimensional chess, right? So if you just assume that Trump wanted to instigate a civil war and he wants to uh accelerate the collapse of the American empire, then what he's doing around the world around the world makes perfect sense, right? So I'm sorry. No. Yeah. No, no. I mean uh you know it's it is really interesting because with Venezuela too, there is this uh other element as well. Marco Rubio, for example, having huge political connections to those who hate the Venezuelan government, who hate the Cuban government, who hate any government that espouses any sovereignty at all. Uh they hate uh Marco Rubio and and the people in Miami. Um so there's a lot of elements here. I'm curious on uh uh where it fits within also this larger picture of the US as an empire not really able to get what it wants. Do you find that it could be that Venezuela is simply being calculated here as an easier target than let's say an Iran which failed dramatically in June of 2025. Uh the three plus year proxy war in Ukraine not going their way. I mean, China, forget about it. Uh, you predicted here that there would be a a day tant of a kind. And right now, it seems there is at at the very least, while there's still aggressive, you know, I don't think we can ever say the US empire will not be aggressive toward countries it doesn't like. But, um, on this trade issue, it had decay pretty badly. And we see we see a pause there. So, where do you think this all fits? Look, look, you're absolutely right in that if America wanted to invade Venezuela, it would take two weeks. Uh the American naval power is overwhelming. Uh they could completely destroy all Venezuela's air defenses very quickly. Um but where what does that get you really? It just makes you a parass state, right? The entire world is would be disgusted by your actions. China, Venez uh China, Iran, Russia we would be much more popular. They would come together. They would coales more in response to uh the violence uh the random violence of American empire. Uh global opinion would completely churn against uh America. Breaks would be a lot stronger. The Iranian people would be much more prepared and united uh in case America were to attack. Also, you couldn't possibly hold Venezuela because uh the Venezuelan people would fight for the freedom. They would die for the freedom. You would all all this guilla warfare. It be it' be like another Vietnam. So what? So what what so yeah, you can destroy Venezuela and you can replace the government. You can kill Maduro. It's not a problem. It's it's very easy for the American power to do this. But but but it puts you in a very very difficult position. Um and it it becomes a quagmire. And not only that, but like once you do Venezuela, then you're kind of stuck doing Cuba and Nicaragua um and it just becomes um a a cascading effect. Uh and and the American Empire just needs to occupy all of South America and Latin America. And maybe it will. Okay. But if it were to do that, then the American Empire would collapse very quickly. uh because one uh America doesn't have the manpower, the resources, the political will, the manufacturing capacity to actually invade all of America and to occupy it. That's number one. Number two is the American people would would rise up and revolt against you because they're the ones being sent to make these sacrifices. They're the ones who have to pay these taxes to fund these forever wars. Um and three is that you if you can if you were to do this, you'd be isolated from the rest of the world. uh Europe, Russia, uh Africa, Asia would see America as a prior state and they would they would basically impose trade embargos against America. America would lose its authority, its empire in the world. So, it's be counterproductive to go invade Venezuela. I'm not saying they won't do it. Um but I'm just saying that if it were to do this, then the consequences would be dire. Yeah. I they definitely would be dire. I'm hearing something like there are millions of Venezuelans uh who are being armed right now to defend their country if there is an invasion. I mean that's that alone should give pause because u we've already seen how bombing right just bombing a country like for example Iran uh that seemed to be more theater because there wasn't really any possibility to do more uh with Venezuela. You're talking about a country that's right smack in the middle of the backyard for the United States. And that means every other country is going to be wondering what happens to us if we don't do what the United States likes. Uh, and does that mean we need to find another path? Uh, what do you think about that? Look, look, look, look. If you bomb Venezuela, Venezuela's not going to sit back. They're going to they're going to strike back and they might, you know, destroy um a a US destroyer. And so it'll be slow mission creep. It'll be provocation. the United States would find itself embroiled in a war. You're absolutely right in that if the United States were attack Venezuela, all of South America would unite and rally behind Venezuela because they would know that we're next. Brazil, Argentina, Chile, not just sit back and wait uh for America, American Empire to come after them. U because they know that once they go after Venezuela, they would have broken a consensus. They would have broken an understanding that's lasted for hundreds of years. uh you know the moral doctrine yeah the moral doctrine says that the west he hemisphere belongs to America but at the same time the moral doctrine implies that America is a protector of the western hemisphere uh and so it doesn't go around and invade the countries of the western western hemisphere if America were to actually launch invasion of Venezuela and occupy the country then that would compel response from all South America yeah and in all of South America is not necessarily aligned here. I mean, we have many different situations with every country. Um, and as it stands, that wouldn't be the case, but things change a lot when uh there's a major US uh intervention. Look, if you threaten a people's national sovereignty, if you if you destroy their dignity, um their freedom, their sense of independence, they will respond violently. Uh we've seen this throughout history. Uh you know, you go back and look at Vietnam. Uh before uh the invasion of Vietnam, uh before the American presence in Vietnam, we couldn't possibly expect the sort of courageous response uh from the Vietnamese people. And remember like it was not really the North Vietnamese, it was not really the Chinese Soviet Union that that defeated the Americans. It was the Vietnamese people themselves that defeated the American military. Why? Because they love freedom. And all people um are like that. Yeah. And they were ready to be done. I mean, they kicked out the French. They had elected a president. They had a government. Um you know, right after World War II, they they had it. I think it was August 45. Uh and then it wasn't too long afterward that they no longer had it, you know, with the US, the UN coming in, the US, the French, etc. Um French at the back end helping the US. Professor Jo, my final question to you then is where are we on this World War III situation, right? Because that's really where all of this appears to be going. Um, there are bigger players that the US, it seems, can't really touch right now, or at least can't touch in the way they want to. Pardon the uh reference given all the Epstein talk we've been having, but they can't they can't do anything with them to a significant degree, affect an outcome. Um but where are we in this uh World War III nexus so to speak? Yeah. So um I would say the major flash point in the world right now is what's happening in Ukraine. The reason why is that the Ukraine front lines has collapsed. Um Russia has had multiple breakthroughs this past week. Um the city of Pvos uh has fallen uh which allows Russia to control the Damas region. Um and the Damas is important because it is the agricultural industrial heartland of Ukraine. So in effect Ukraine has lost the war and there's really no way for Ukraine to come back. Um they lost anywhere between one to two million uh fighting age men in this war. uh millions of Ukrainians have fled the country and they they will never come back. The UK the the landscape government is plagued uh with corruption. Um so there's um uh news that this past week um someone who was very close to Zilanski has fled uh Ukraine for Israel and he was notorious for being corrupt. And that's that's not just one person. It's entire regime. Okay, you've got these dozens of high level military officers in Ukraine that have benefited tremendously from corruption in the war. So, Ukraine is lost. Uh the war is lost. The problem is that if Ukraine is lost, if NATO admits to losing this war, then the then there's a threat that there'll be a political earthquake throughout Europe because uh NATO and Europe has invested heavily in this war. They expect they literally expect that Ukraine will win this war and they can just collect reparations from Russia. uh they froze in $22 billion of Russian assets in European banks. Um so they cannot afford to lose the war. They cannot explain to their people how for the past four years um in the media um there's this narrative that Ukraine is about to march all the way to Moscow and then suddenly oops sorry we were lying to you. We were gaslighting you sorry we've lost the war. So they believe the lead in in Europe cannot withstand a loss. the Lencian government would could not possibly withstand a a peace. Um so we can expect this war to um accelerate. We can expect NATO to send in more forces to shore up uh the defenses of Ukraine. Remember that uh NATO officers, NATO special forces, NATO weaponry already in Ukraine, but we can expect that over the next few months these volunteers, okay, volunteers we sent to Ukraine to fight um with the Ukrainian army. The Ukrainian army has collapsed. Okay. Um you're talking about like 100 thousands of of desertions. Um so uh what I'm watching and I think what everyone should be watching is what happens in in Ukraine for the next two months. Um the real concern is that NATO involves itself in a war and if it does that it cannot extrogate itself from the war. It it's all or nothing. The other thing that we have to remember is that the western model of fighting a war is through debt financing. Okay. So like the example is you look at the noonic wars right where basically the bank of England was financing all these European powers to fight uh France and uh that led to like seven wars. Why? Because even though Napoleon was defeating all his enemies, the Bank of England could not afford to omit defeat because it would mean that the entire debt would be wiped out and the entire nation of England would would be wiped out. So it's all Ponzi scheme. Europe has invested heavily in this Ponzi scheme uh in this war in Ukraine and if it ever emits defeat then the entire Pon scheme collapses and all of Europe collapses as well. So we can see a so we can expect a massive escalation of war in Ukraine over the next few months and next year. Well that seems to contradict uh Donald Trump's promise to end the war and you know forget 24 hours at all. Uh I don't know if you saw and we're you know we're about the at the end here. The uh uh the United States is considering deporting Ukrainians and Ukraine is saying they're going to use those Ukrainians at the front lines. It's an it's an absolute embarrassment really uh for Ukrainians who have been living in the US and you know these Ukrainians are said to have committed crimes, immigration status, what whatever. But if they're deported and then maybe we'll never hear about them again, but they're deported. The Ukrainian the government Zalinski, they're all saying, "Yeah, we need men for the front line. I I mean, this is this is how bad it's getting." Look, look, look, the reality is that there's a high possibility of a revolution uh in Ukraine. There's a high possibility of coup d'eta in uh in in Ukraine because the military feels betrayed by Zilinski and the Americans. the Europeans. Look, the reality is that we should have been in this war in the first place, right? Putin and then h had a deal like three years ago. Then Boris Johnson flies into KF and says, "Hey man, don't worry about Russia. We will finance you. We'll give you all the weaponry you need to defeat. Russia's a paper tiger. You fight them. Uh Russia will collapse. You'll march to Moscow. You'll work for Putin and then you'll be the hedgeimon of of Europe." So all these promises, all these guarantees were made to the Ukrainian people. Ukrainian people have um lost millions of people in this war. They've lost their country. They lost their nation state. If there were ever a peace, I guarantee you that elements of the Ukrainian military would stage political assassinations against people like Zilinski. Surprising hasn't happened. All righty. Professor Jung, this was a great conversation. I want to make sure that everyone knows that your substack is in the video description. Uh before we head out of here, uh I also want to let everyone know to hit that like button before you head out of here. And lastly, I want you all to know that I do have Mark Labota on 2 PM Eastern tomorrow. So, I'm putting that link in the chat right now and the video description and it will be public right after this show is over. So we will be talking uh even more deeply and even more with more uh time on what's happening in Ukraine. Uh so that is going to be there now. That show is in the video description. Um so Professor J, anything you want to say final words before we head out of here? No, no, it's always fun talking you Danny and and hope to do do this again and uh Yeah, of course. I you know and I'm this is confused as everyone uh right now as to what's happening. Okay, but again I say that if you just work with the assumption that Trump for whatever reason wants to is get a civil war in America and wants to accelerate the collapse of the American empire a lot of things make more sense. Professor Jung, thank you so much everyone. We're going to head out of here together. Hit the like button before you go. Um and be sure to catch Professor Jung Substack. Be sure to catch the link to the stream for tomorrow, 2:00 p.m. Eastern, November 15th with Mark Labota. And also be sure to find all the places to support this channel, Patreon, Substack, and much more. But hitting that like button will keep this stream going after we are done. And without further ado, see you tomorrow afternoon. Bye-bye.