I'm sorry, dude. You're bummed. Your consultants told you not to do it. This I like this guy a lot, too. I'm sorry. I I I uh I appreciate your time. Listen, I don't I don't get to talk to someone in the government that's that's taking part of these big decisions like this. And uh Well, only one of 535. So, which one is would would like me? Virginia Fox. I don't know. Do you have a number? I don't have a number. No. All right. [Music] [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Welcome to the Adam Freeland Show. I'm Adam Freeland. As always, thank you to our members and our patrons, the people that support our show. If you'd like to support our show, um there's a link in the description of this video below uh to become a member, which gives you early access to all of our episodes. And um there's also a link if you prefer to use Patreon in the description as well. Um and and as always, guys, there are two additional tiers. Um, for those of you who'd like to get your name in the credits this week, my guest was Richie Torres from New York's 15th district uh in the House of Representatives. I'd heard of Representative Torres, but I before I researched for this episode, I'd never heard of his backstory. And and frankly, it's kind of inspirational. I mean, he grew up in public housing, you know, single mother, a minimum wage. Uh, you know, he realized he was gay in elementary school. He he attempted to take his own life in in college and he came back from a mental health crisis and became a member of the New York City Council and a member of the United States House of Representatives. He's the first gay black man in Congress. I mean, that's it's it's kind of like a movie. Um, this is like a I don't know what this is. It's kind of like it becomes it's a it was unexpected. Um I Representative Torres is uh has been referred to as Israel's loudest um advocate in the House of Representatives. And um when prior to this interview, I wanted to have a conversation that didn't resemble like a point counterpoint um you know just screaming match like we see online all the time. I wanted to try and get something different. And to be honest with you, when I expressed I became emotional um and and it fell off the rails and I wasn't able as an interviewer to get it back on the rails. I mean there were like multiple topics that we didn't cover at the end. It was it was frankly it was exhausting for both of us. Um, and yeah, if they felt like it was a gotcha and I'm an activist and uh uh you know this is how this conversation goes nowadays and uh and so while I didn't get what I was initially you know looking for I I I kind of still feel like it's important I stand by what I said and uh even if I'm like being my voice is high don't like I mean I think it's important to say what I said in the interview. And so I don't know what it is. I mean, as at a certain point, I don't even know if it's an interview, but um I hope you you know, make of it what you will. And uh you know, next week we're going to have like really it's going to be so funny. But this one, I think, is a is going to be a different tone. And uh you know, enjoy. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman from New York in the US House of Representatives, Richie Torres. Everyone, make some noise. I can't. Hello. What's going on? Hello. Well, I got two issues. First of all, you your district is Yankee Stadium. That is one of your That's one of your I represent Yankee Stadium. Yeah. And I asked you how the Yanks were, and you were like, I'm not You didn't. So, I love the Yankees, but I'm not a I'm not a huge baseball fan. just turned it on. And I'm not going to pretend to be a baseball fan. What about the zoo? I love the Bronx. Okay. Guards. Do Do you consider the animals your constituents? Uh, I consider the Bronx indistinguishable from the United States Congress. Yeah. Oh, does that crush in like if you say it to another guy in Congress, it crushes nowhere because I, you know, if if if I were actually if I had any comedic talent, I probably wouldn't be in Congress. What do you mean? Yeah. You want to be a stand up? You know, when I was a kid, I was a fan not of baseball, but professional wrestling. Really? Yeah. I was a huge fan of the era. The attitude era. So I started watching in 1998 Stone Cold Steve Boston the rock. I thought that was the golden age mankind. Yeah. So so was I. Yeah. Yeah. That we were watching and I did a huge rock impersonation when I was a kid. Like I was I used to I like knew of you as a congressman but I didn't know your backstory. And uh I mean godamn wow. I mean it's an incredibly uh inspirational story that you And unlike Joyce Santos, I have a true story that you that's your op. I have I have no Only Fans account, but I do have a actual Did he have an Only Fans? Oh, yeah. In Congress. I'm not sure if he had it, but certainly he was generating income. He would have been the first. I mean, who knows? I mean, I'm not closely closely following the Only Fans accounts of every member of Congress. Can't stand this guy. No, just, you know, just I want to Do you miss him? He was pretty funny. You know, he was uh he was a source of comedic enjoyment. Yeah. His tweet right before jail was amazing. He's like the curtain closes like the you know she walks off stage. He he was a he was a real ham, George. Yeah, he was. But he was a you he was a complete fraud, right? Uh total fraud. Yeah. Yeah. Because he he bought like uh Birkin bags with campaign funds. Well, also he fabricated every aspect of his biography. It was not like he told one lie here or there. It was like the whole story was a complete fabrication. I feel like in in this day and age that's kind of like uh that's part that's that's in play. I feel like you could do it. No, it's it's I've never I feel like it's such a chaotic time like Yeah. Like I I went to Harvard Law School and I I I used to be the the coolest guy in my school and I'm I'm also Brazilian and Jewish and what did he say? No, he said that his you know he had his his parents were Holocaust survivors and he was Ukrainian because of the war in Ukraine. He was also Ukrainian and he had, you know, he was friends who died in the mass shooting in Orlando. He's amazing. He like incorporated every current event into his life story. Pathological liars are great. But he he took it all the way to the the freaking to the show. Although I you know he inspired me to introduce a bill that has I think it's the greatest acronym in the history of of congressional legis. The Santos Act. And what was it? Stop another non-truthful office seeker. Santos. Am I sensing that there's like Santos Act? that the two of you guys as like young New York gay uh like Latino uh congressman, he's naturally like your foil. He's your Darth Vader. Let's assume like after he was expelled from Congress, I became the most prominent Jewish gay Latino congressman from New York. How's that? You're Jewish? No, I'm Jewish. I'm lying. I'm lying. Oh, come on. I wouldn't wish this upon my greatest enemy. You don't want You don't want any part of this, my friend. You never heard this comment. He's Jewish, not Jewish. Yeah, I've heard a lot of people say that, but you don't. I'm just No, but he invented the term about you. I don't He invented the term about himself. It's just a word with Yeah. about him. When he was confronted, you know, why did you lie about being Jewish? He said, I never said I was Jewish. I said I was Jewish. I would say that I'm uh that I'm I'm But you're actually Jewish. Yeah. Unfortunately. Yeah. Yeah. It's tough. Yeah. I can't quit. No. I wrote a letter to to BB and they rejected. They don't let you out. It's like the mafia. You know that you know how you join is when you're a baby. Yeah. You your parents have a party and then this like old wizard walks in and then he pulls your your uh your diaper off and then your whole family looks at your beautiful baby penis and then he cuts the the part that I I guess gives one pleasure later on in life and during sex and uh and then there's like a deli tray there and stuff. That's that's how you join the club. Yeah. But we've been doing it for a while though. I don't know. I don't mind it. You You really didn't like my crude humor. I mean, you've endured for thousands of years, so something's going right. We're Yeah. Yeah. I guess so. It's the It's definitely the wizard and the baby's penis part. Yeah. Well, I know. I'm I'm being crude with a member of the of the legislant decisions that parents have to. What's rude is that we're in a in an era where like uh talking to someone in the legislative uh branch is uh it's a it's a a privilege because it's so [ __ ] crazy. Uh and uh well the privilege is mine. You're the one with the massive following in a you were in the New Yorker. You know how I know that? Cuz you told me. Not because I read the profile. But you told me you were in the New Yorker. So congratulations on the profile. You know you would be considered young in the United States Congress. Yeah. I mean I'm I've only been able to be my dating profile says I'm congressionally young. Congressionally young and congressionally attractive just in case you're disappointed. That gets that gets some action. Is it a plus? Uh it's not clear. It's not clear. It has to be. I mean, I work seven days a week, so that has a crowding out effect, but yeah. And you're with the the worst people on earth. Well, what you what are you doing to yourself? It's it's must be tough. Yeah. One of my colleagues said to me that Congress is the best university in the world. Really? And because you just have access to some of the brightest minds. You can learn a tremendous amount. They're the smartest guys. Some of the Yeah. Yeah. We certainly have access to It's like the Sorbon or something in Congress. How boring is it like to be in the government sometimes? What's the most boring part of it? I mean, I love it. You love it because of the variety. You like parliamentary procedure? I feel like no position has more variety than a house member cuz one day you get to be local, state, national, and international at the same time. So one day I'm receiving a pothole, a complaint about a pothole on form road or pressuring the mayor to crack down on an open air drug market in the South Bronx and the next day in Congress about that and then the next day I'm receiving like a briefing from the CIA about rising tensions between the United States and China. So what do you do about the pothole in DC though? I'm just sorry. I mean I I use my platform to pressure the mayor to solve problems or the governor Adams. Yeah. Let me Can I guess who you were in school growing up? Sure. You were like a you were you student government? Uh no, not student government. You were like a debate club or I was the captain of the law team. Law team. Oh, so you wanted to be a lawyer? Yeah, I had dreams of becoming either a lawyer or a teacher. So you did mock trial, right? I did moo court and mock trial, but I was the ma I was a like a master of moo court. And what did you like? You liked like the Attakus Finch style like closing argument. So that's more that was mock trial. Moo court is modeled after the Supreme Court or an appela court. So you deliver an argument before a panel of judges who interrupt you with questions. Speeches. The one that's less c like No, because it teaches you to think on your feet. Yeah. It's less It's less theatrical. So So but that was your prep for the game. Yeah. You went to the show. It was the first time when I discovered I had a talent for public speaking or I thought I had a talent for early on. You grew up in a single mother home. You have a twin brother. Twin brother. Identical. He's biologically older. I'm temperamentally older. Identical or no? Fraternal. We're fake twins. That's all right. Five minutes apart. I was on a date once with a girl who told me the first date. She said, "I have an identical twin." I was I can't do it. How I can't tell her secrets. She has her brain is connected to some other another one of her. Yeah. You can't trust these people. It's funny. When I was a kid, that's a prejudice of mine. People would ask me, "Where's your brother?" I'm like, "We're we're fraternal twins, not Siamese twins. Like, I don't know his whereabouts at every moment." So, but you're good at DC, right? I'm learning DC. You're still learning? Yeah, of course. I've only been there for three terms. It's the most complicated legislature on earth. No one's going to master it in three terms. I think the problem with DC is not that it's corrupt. The problem with DC is that it's stupid. There's just so much absurdity in DC. I thought you said it's the smartest places in the world. Well, it can't you have access to some of the brightest minds. So like if you if you want to learn more about artificial intelligence or quantum computing or energy, you can reach out to some of the press minds. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can call Eddie CEO right now. But call Zuck right now. People generally will take your I'm not calling him now. So you I don't know. I don't know. Your voice was up. You said I'm not calling him now. You have his number. Well, I don't know. So, what CEO is your best friend? What's the best one? Ment mention who's my best friend. Yeah. How many CEO friends do you have? I don't have many CEO friends. Well, you said you could call anyone on the phone at any time. If I if I if I had a question about like AI policy, I probably could get a meeting with a CEO. Yeah, that's true of any member of Congress. Yeah. Did you grow up in the district you represent? Uh my father's from this from M Haven. I'm from Thragneck Houses. So I grew up in a public housing development in Thrageneck Houses right across the street from what was formerly Trump Golf Course. Yeah. And I kid you not as the golf course was undergoing construction, it unleashed a skunk infestation. So I tell people So I tell people I've been smelling the stench of Donald Trump long before he became president, but they were it was infested with skunks. What's so like you grew up in New York City, so born and raised in the Bronx. Our president is an outer burough New Yorker effectively from Queens. Right. He he wants to present that he's a that he's like Mr. like Goldman Sachs, but really he's a New York City real estate guy. Is that correct? He was never respected in the real estate industry. He was known to like rip off his contractors and he was seen as a joke within the industry. Yeah. He he figured out that if you keep someone in a lawsuit, you don't have to pay them he was more known for his self-promotion and marketing Yeah. than he was for his actual effectiveness in real estate. Yeah. Have you ever What have your interactions been with the president? No interactions. Never met him. Have no desire to meet him. Let's practice it right now. Feel like he's the worst person on earth. You don't want to meet him once. You're in the government though. You You got to meet the president. He's the devil. He's the devil. Yeah. You got to say you got to have a good burn for the for the president. Let's practice. I'm the I'm Trump. What's up? I'm Trump. Nice to meet you. Yeah, that's your No, you you just bombed. You can't They're like that with some weird smile. Going to shake Donald Trump's hand. Yeah. You have to say like um you're you've you're you're doing like the like the Holocaust right now in this country. Like you're you have to say like you're ruining this country right now. Like seriously, why don't you say something like that? You're an [ __ ] You've sent the Marines into Okay. Well, we'll practice. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. Let's get it. Let's Come on, dude. Mr. President. Yeah. How are you? I'm looking forward. Hopefully you can release those files. Epste. That's your No, come on, dude. First of all, you guys already lost on Epste. You think we lost on Epste? He's obviously in the files. Well, half of the files is your guys, too, right? So, you know, but half the files is your guys, too. So, that's why you guys didn't do this. My My view is release the files and let the dice pull what they may. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. You guys lost on Epste. Why do we lose? His crappy excuse like everyone his whole base doesn't really care. Yeah, they moved on. What we found is that they actually don't care. Maggot didn't really care. Yeah. Yeah. You guys really are having a rough one right now, I think. What's your advice for us? Um I don't know. I mean, you're the you're in you're one of the guys. So, uh I'll tell you what I I'm seeing, right? Please tell me. I really wanted to give you your whole story about where you want me to tell my story. No, no, no. Cuz I I want to talk about this, but Okay. Uh you clearly don't want to hear my stories. I've been trying to toss it to your story, which is [ __ ] that's a Hallmark movie. We'd open this up like this guy's You're the first uh black uh gay guy to be in the government. Gay guy. Gay man to be in the government. Gay guy is we you can't say that to a uh first Latino and black gay member of Congress. First Latino United States. It doesn't roll off the tongue that one. Yeah. Too too many identities. Yeah. Yeah. First black president. Obama crushed it with that one. Yeah. first Latino and black. Once you have a first black president, everything else becomes less impressive. How many uh LGBT members of the of Congress are there? There are quite a few. Like more than 10. More than 10. Yeah. And there's 100 uh Senate. How many House? 435. 435. So 535 in total. Are there any No Republicans, right? Who are openly LGBTQ? Oh, you're saying you're spilling a tea right now? Well, what my my running joke is the LGBTQ caucus is the only caucus that can expand without winning an election. We just have to take members out of the closet. Would you do that as you were in the closet in your life, right? Like what's what are the ethics there? It's really interesting cuz like would I out members if you see a closet gay Republican like advocating for something that is Would I out him? Well, it's it's advocate for like taking away gay marriage or something like what what's the rule there? because you were in the closet yourself as a young man and it's a painful thing I would imagine. Yeah. No, you have to go through the Yeah, it's a process. You found out in middle school. Uh I realized that I was a gay in middle school. When was it? Titanic. Leo DiCaprio. No, I didn't realize at all when I was Leonardo DiCaprio. What? How was it? What was it? I forget exactly how I realized. But you forgot. No, you don't forget. You got to have a better story. You're a politician. Titanic Leonardo. I'm not often asked about my coming out story in the Bronx. So, why not? It's an interesting story, right? And like you're you're Puerto Rican. Was you were afraid of uh experiencing homophobia in your community or I grew up in the project. So, it's a machismo environment. And what about in your family? Was there a like when did you come out to them? Uh 16. 16. Yeah. And was that when you came out? Uh no. And then I came out gradually over time and then when I ran for office when I was 24, I decided to be out to everyone to run as an openly LGBTQ candidate. But that was back in 200. When you were at school and stuff, you didn't tell people that you were gay or Yeah, I was telling more and more people over time. I thought you were at an assembly or something. Yes, I was at a debate competition where I said I was a gay American. So that's coming out. Isn't that like a Jim McGrevy moment though? Remember he said I as a gay American gave the speech. And that's such a dated record. You're a kid coming out of the closet. Don't diminish that experience. Yeah, I was back in No, that's your story. Why Why would you say that that was just a debate competition? It has to be scary. No, I agree. It was terrifying. What led you to do it at debate? Yeah. I don't know. It felt It just felt, you know, it's interesting. Did you see something that you were like Yeah. So, I was I was browsing through MySpace. Yeah. And I ran into the profile of of a teacher. Uhhuh. Who who identified as gay? And it was the first time I I knew of a person in my social universe who was openly LGBTQ. And so I approached him. And your social universe, you chilled with your teachers or people in the world. I knew I guess you were you were you hung out with adults. I not socialized my teachers. Yeah. Yeah. No. So it was the first adult or person that was openly gay. Yeah. In my Yeah. Cuz I grew up in a world where no one was openly gay. Yeah. and um uh I just spontaneously came out. It was the first time I ever had acknowledged my sexuality to someone. Do you feel like um sharing your story like and uh making it all the way to Congress? That has to be an inspiration to people that grew up in a place like that. No, that must feel good. No, it does. So why are you diminishing it on the diminishing it? But I I feel you should be proud of that. I was in the New Yorker yesterday. You were I was in the New Yorker as well back in 2016. Oh, okay. Well, I was in it yesterday, so both both of us are probably the same same uh same. Yeah, but you're you're you're at a much higher level than I am. So, no, you were uh 2016. You were a a Bernie dog. I was 2016. So, wait, so go back to that cuz it's it's interesting to me. So, like you had this mental health crisis in college, right? And uh did it stem it stemmed from being gay? Is that what it was? Uh not only from my I mean I had a sexual identity but I had a severe struggle with depression. Yeah. Which began in high school. Yeah. But then became worse in college and I dropped out of college and at some point even thought of committing suicide. Yeah. Underwent hospitalization. Felt as if the world around me had collapsed. Um, but then I began like taking an anti-depressant, going through psychotherapy, and it just gave me a fighting chance to rebuild my life. So, after a few years of hospitalization, I rebuilt my life and became the youngest elected official in America's largest city. I ran for the council and then ultimately ran for the United States Congress and here I am. And it it was a few years that you you were going through that. Yeah. Yeah. And so, and what did you do what once you got out? What? What? How did you restart your life? Well, instead of going back to school, I went into politics. So, I was a Uhhuh. housing organizing organizer for a New York City council ever and then I ran for public office myself. I would have moved to like France or something. No, I I couldn't afford I couldn't afford to move to France. Yeah, I grew up poor. You can figure it out. You get a ticket, you get to France. I don't know. You busk Do you know a guitar? No. You get a guitar, put the the I don't know obviously to run for office that you have to have a call to public service. You guys all say that. But like you have to have a ambition like as well, right? That has to be part of it, right? Like I want to do I think an ambition to make a difference. Yeah. But you you want to be I want to be the president of the United You know, come on. I have no desire to be president. Is your ambition purely just to make a a difference? I mean, it's a very abstract term, too. My my dream, you know, my goal is to be the best elected official I can be. Uhhuh. And then let the rest take care of itself. Yeah, that doesn't work for me. Works for me. You could say like I I want to like I want to make sure that I mean I would love to be say a better thing like I want to make sure the kids in my neighborhood could like you know have a better life or something. Saying the best that you could be is so abstract. You could you could vote for anything. No, I mean I can tell you why I run into public office. So which is what? It was really about public housing. So, so you know, born and raised in the Bronx, spent most of my life in poverty. Uhhuh. And raised by a single mother. He raised three of us on minimum wage, which in the 1990s was $4.25 an hour. Ridiculous. But the most formative experience of my life was growing up in public housing. And in New York City, there's an institution known as the New York City Housing Authority, NICHA, which manages the largest stock of public housing in the country. It houses about a half a million people and it's been so chronically underfunded by the federal government that it has a capital need of $80 billion in counting. And and is that issue something that affects your constituents because you represent the poorest district and I represent one of the largest concentrations of public housing in the country. Yeah. And so you have like asthmatics who are struggling to breathe in their homes. You live in unsafe circumstances as well, right? Yeah, I mean I grew up without heat and hot water. Um molded conditions, leaking conditions, like these condition, you know, there's the living conditions of public housing have become a humanitarian crisis. Uhhuh. And uh I think of I think you know if if if Nicha were a city unto itself, it would be the largest city of low-income black and brown Americans in the United States. And it's the forgotten city of New York. um in representing the uh the poorest district in America. One of the smallest districts too, right? The most contiguous and compact district. Yeah. Um and it was even more so before redistricting. And you have a third of your district lives under the poverty line. Is that correct? It's the lowest income district. Uh about a third of the district uh is enrolled in SNAP. 70% is enrolled in Medicaid. Uh a third of them about a third are uh born in other countries. Is that correct? Significant immigrant population. Yeah. What does that what is the mandate that you have in DC representing those people? It's to make government work for the Bronx um to protect critical programs like Medicaid, SNAP, Medicare, Social Security. Is that what you carry with you when you're in Congress? Do you Is that what you consider when you're like in a committee hearing or something? Everything should be centered around the Bronx. Yeah. And for me, the Bronx is not only where I live, it's who I am. Yeah. You know, I tell my constituents, even when I leave the Bronx for Washington DC, the Bronx never leaves me. The most important lesson my mother taught me is never forget where you came from. And I'm from the Bronx. And I will I lived in the Bronx my whole life, and I probably will die in the Bronx. Guys, DraftKings Casino has your playbook for gaming action all season long. Play thousands of popular slots for for a shot at Play thousands of popular slots for a shot at jackpots. Over 400 million has already been awarded. That's a lot, guys. And don't get me started on Huff and More Puff. New players get 500 spins on, of course, Huff and More Puff over 10 days. Download the app. Use the code TFS to claim your spins after your first $5 wager. Get in the game with DraftKings Casino, home of the largest jackpot. And of course, Huff and More Puff. Uh, of course, you get spins on Huff and More Puff. Get in, get in the game with DraftKings Casino, home of the largest jackpot win in online casino history. The crown is yours. And of course, they have Huff and More Puff. Huff and More Puff. Uh, I guys, I can't tell you how much these these 10 days of spins uh mean to me, guys. Uh, you get 500 spins on Huff and More Puff over 10 days. Download the app and use the code TFS to claim your spins after your first $5 wager. Once again, guys, I I let me stress this, okay? I don't want to get I don't want to get this wrong. New players get 500 spin 500 spins on Huff and More Puff over 10 days. You download the app, use the code TFS, and you claim your spins after your first $5 wager. That's Huff and More Puff. It's for adults. Gambling problem? Call 1800 gambler. In Connecticut, help is available for a problem gambling. Call 888789777 or visit ccpg.org. Please play responsibly. 21 and over. Physically present in Connecticut, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia only. Void in Ontario. Eligibility restrictions apply. New customers only. Non-withdrawable casino spins issued as 50 spins per day for 10 days. Valid for featured game only and expire each day after 24 hours. See terms at casino.draftkings.com/promos. Ends October 5th, 2025 at 11:59 p.m. Eastern time. Let me tell you about the online cannabis company that's revolutionizing how we deal with life's challenges. from sleepless nights to stressfilled days and sex and also a sex one. Mood.com has created an entire line of functional gummies that target specific health concerns with 100% federally legal THC blends that'll deliver them discreetly to your doorstep. That that's that's awesome, right? And you get 20% off your first order at mood.com with the promo code TFS. Guys, I've tried a bunch of their gummies and it's wild how different each one feels. Their Sleepy Time gummies knock me out in about 15 minutes flat. No hangovers, no groggginess. I wake up feeling amazing, but it's sleepy time. And don't get me started on Epic Euphoria gummies. They're perfect for They're perfect for those days when nothing's going on right when nothing's going Don't get me started on Epic Euphoria Gummies. They're perfect for those days when nothing's going right and you just need to hit the reset button on your crap mood. Okay, so what makes these different is how they've paired THC and other cannabonoids with herbs and adaptogens. You're you're just not going to find gummies like this in the dispensary or anywhere for that matter. And they have gummies for everything. immune support, menopause relief, PMS symptoms. I bet you guys are going to love I mean that especially for this audience, mental clarity, sexual arousal, and each one is crafted using federally legal cannabis grown on a small family-owned American farm. That's right. Not only does Mood stand behind everything with an industryleading 100day satisfaction guarantee, but as I mentioned, listeners get 20% off their first order with the code TFS. So, head to moo.com, browse their amazing selection of functional gummies, and find the perfect gummy for whatever you're dealing with. And remember to use the promo code TFS at checkout to save 20% off your first order. That's mood.com. And now we're back to this to the episode. Um, something interesting that's happened in the Bronx is in the last general election, from what I understand, there was the largest swing towards uh, the Republican party. One of the largest in 2012, yeah, Obama won Barack Obama won 96% of the vote Uhhuh. in New York 15 in the Bronx. Yeah. Flash forward to the 2024 election, there's a more than 22 point swing toward Donald Trump. Um, why is is the Democratic Party losing the most vulnerable people in America then? What do you attribute that? Well, the Democratic Party is hemorrhaging support among working-class people of color throughout the country. Why is that? You know, AAMS razor holds the simplest explanation is almost always the best. The simple explanation is inflation in immigration. Yeah, we had the highest inflation in more than four decades. So if you're paying double or triple the cost for groceries and gasoline, you're going to lash out at those in power at the establishment. You're you say that the incumbency is just bound to lose that election. Biden if the incumbency is perceived as failing. Yes. Was there a way to win that election against Trump if inflation is so bad? Is it impossible to win that election? The odds were stacked against us because of inflation and the mismanagement of the migrant crisis. Uh but yeah, um you know, if we had the benefit of a full primary process and if we had a stronger general election candidate, maybe we could have won, but I don't know for sure. Um but Donald Trump is a fatally flawed candidate, so maybe we could have won. You're you're a member of the least popular Congress probably of our lifetime. Uh I think we are we are more we're less popular than colonoscopies. It sucks, dude. Yeah. Yeah. Does it suck? Does it suck to be the I think there was polling that said we're more popular than cockroaches, but we're less and more popularly more popular than Ebola. You guys are losing Hamas for sure. Yeah. Well, you guys are getting crushed by Hamas might be more popular on college campuses than Congress. Oh, okay. Okay. Anyway, but uh but I I looked at a Gallup poll the other day. Dude, this is I I was actually started laughing. You just have to laugh at this. You guys are 23 right now. That's pretty That's not bad. Higher than I thought. That's high. Yeah, you guys. What is this? Oh my god. May 2024. 13 means we have room for growth. 13. That's you and the Republicans. 13. Yeah. The Well, the institution at large. 13 is you poop your pants in front of the whole school. Uh February 2024, 12%. Yeah. So, it sounds like that if Congress were not a If Congress were a woman, you probably wouldn't go on a date with her. Is that why? She's unpopular. I don't know. No. I What? She could be like beautiful, you know, like what do you mean? No, you seem to hate Congress. So, I'm saying everyone does, right? I'm looking at the Gallot poll, part of the 13% that approves or I think that we have to recognize the runway a little bit and uh what got us here maybe. Yeah. you know, um seeing the Marine Corps uh entering the second largest city in America and uh seeing the most vulnerable people in society just taken away from their children. Yeah. And and kidnapped and uh there are there are there are facilities in our country right now surrounded by alligators and there are facilities where there are cages with human beings in them who have not been afforded any due process. And the sad thing is is that you guys are um you're polling behind Donald Trump right now. And uh that's not true. The Democratic party has lower approval ratings than do than Donald Trump. I think the story is more complicated there. What is that? Yeah. So the latest polling from CNN shows that the most important issue to Americans is inflation, the cost of living. Uhhuh. And on the most important issue, Donald Trump is 25 points underwater. And since the November election, there's been a 34 point swing against him. And that we as Democrats are more trusted on inflation than he is. That's a huge swing. Why are you guys not killing him right now? That is that is a cherry pick. Come on. You know, that's a that's a I mean, inflation is the most inflation is the most important issue. I want to talk to you guys about monarch money. Um it sometimes it's tough to remember where all your finance accounts are. you know, they're like they're drifting all over the internet. Um, if you had an old job and 401k, a job that you forgot about, job that you want to forget about, a traumatic thing may have happened at that job. Um, you can you can organize it all in one place with Monarch Money. And it's a personal finance tool that brings your entire financial life together, all in one clean interface on your laptop or your phone. Guys, it it just simplifies your life. Money is a really stressful thing. I didn't look at my bank account for about three and a half years. And right now, for our listeners, Monarch is offering 50% off your first year. I was looking at the app Monarch. It's really streamlined my relationship. Now, my wife has access to all of my accounts. Our account, I mean, our accounts. And uh, you know, it's just kept the the can you Venmo me thing. It's like and then if you see a record of it on Venmo, it's just, you know, we have all of our [ __ ] in one place. So, recently when I went home to my dad, I found all of this mail from a former employer uh with a 401k that I just didn't know existed. Um, now with Monarch Money, I could have all of this crap in one place. A lot of people forget about it. It's not embarrassing to admit. You know, it does the heavy lifting and it links all your accounts in minutes and it gets clear data visuals, smart categorization of your spending, and real control over your money. I burped a little bit. So guys, just don't leave your freaking money on the table, okay? You could track every dollar and if you're ignoring your finances, it could cost you dearly. Monarch helps you stay informed so nothing slips through the cracks. It's not just another finance app, guys. Trust the Wall Street Journal, which called it the best budgeting app of 2025. Trust Forbes, which said it's the best app for couples. Uh, trust CNBC, which called it one of the top fintech. Uh, I don't even know what that is, but it's fintech. What? A passionate Reddit community of over 34,000 users. Trust that that shape. There's 34,000 guys talking about the app. That's pretty I mean, it's impressive. Congrats to Monarch Money. Once again, guys, don't let financial opportunity split through the cracks. Use code TFS at monarchmoney.com in your browser for half off your first year. That's 50% off your first year at monarchmoney.com with the code tfs. Now back to the show. Lucy guys, I want to talk to you guys about Lucy. As always, it's 100% pure nicotine. Always tobaccof free. Lucy breakers are nicotine pouches with an extra um I don't know. That's gross the way I said. Each pouch holds a capsule that can be broken open to release the little extra flavor and hydration. That's how I get uh I hydrate myself. So, set yourself up with a subscription and have Lucy delivered straight to your door. What's my favorite flavor? I like the minty ones cuz I like to kiss. And what's my favorite strength? It's I like the top one. I like to I like to I like to get a real buzz and I pop it in in the morning and I don't stop popping it in until I go to sleep at night. Guys, level up your nicotine routine with Lucy. Go to lucy.co/tafs cotfs and use promo code TAFFS to to get 20% off your first order. Lucy has a 30-day refund policy if you change your mind. I've It's no shame. Again, that's lucy.co and use code TFS to get 20% off. And here comes the fine print. Lucy products are only for adults of legal age and every order is age verified. Warning, this product contains nicotine. Nicotine is an addictive chemical. Thank you guys. And now back to the show with Richie Torres. I hope it's a good part. One thing that is understood is that you're in the House of Representatives and you have to run every two years. Yeah. Like how long do you have to wait till you just start running for the next one after you after you win an election? I mean, you you start immediately. Yeah. It's like you're in a constant state of campaigning. Is uh campaigning and going to fundraisers, doing all this stuff, is that a distraction from the work that you have to do? It can, but but I feel like if you're effective at governing, then it improves your your your your ability to get reelected. So, if you're if you're if you're a good congressman Yeah. you're going to be popular in your district and you're going to be well positioned to be re-elected. Does it does it suck that you have to fund raise, right? It sucks. Fundraising sucks. Yeah. Yeah. And like uh because it's Citizens United, like it's nauseating to ask people for money. Yeah. Uh, do you feel like it's eroded people's like faith in the institution? Right. I feel like too much money is too much time spent on fundraising. Um, especially if you're a frontline member Yeah. who has a fiercely contested general election every two years where tens of millions of dollars are spent. You could be spending more than half your time every week at a banquet. Uh, no. Or just call time, just dialing for dollars. you you were criticized I saw for uh Blackstone donation, right? And it's it's understood that they are the architects of the housing crisis pretty much. Yeah. I mean they're I mean you receive contributions from thousands of people. Yeah. Or employees from all over the place. You can send it back. Say [ __ ] off. Yeah. I'm not So they're giving you a check just because. I I decide issues on the merits. I don't know what others do, but I decide issues on the merits. So it's a just cuz check. just because they're just giving you money just because they think you're nice. I'm pretty sure that even there are lefty candidates who have gotten money from people who are employed. Yeah. Rank and file employee. Sure. I figure like if you could maybe if you're like this guy's you do know you know uh this guy's making my constituents lives worse. You could you could be like [ __ ] you. I don't want I I'm in a safe blue district, right? People should judge me by my record. So, by the legislation, I pass. Yeah. I work seven days a week. I'm visible in my district. I'm on the ground. I'm happy to. If you ever want to take tours of my district, I'm happy to walk you through my district. So, yeah, that's I'd like to I've I mean, I've been to the zoo in Yankee City. Great. Well, not the actual projects, not the amenities, not the institutions. Yeah. I can give you a sense of racially concentrated poverty in a in a place like the Bron. So, that that's what my question is is like where do you live? Which borrow? I live in Brooklyn. Yeah. And that's my question. So you you might be divorced from the experience of racially concentrated poverty, but what does that have to do with taking money from blacks? Like I just feel like that's a deflection and I don't want to I don't want to cut like an argument right now. I don't if you want to question my ability to represent my district. I'm happy to show you what I do. I'm happy to bring you to my district. I'm questioning what I'm calling and introduce you to my constituents. What I'm calling to question is the institution, right? I'm I'm calling it to question the system and you're functioning within a system, right? I've received contributions from tens of thousands of people. So, I can't keep track of every person. I'm not responsible for every person. You forgot. I'm only responsible for what I do. Okay. So, so you I mean, you can, you know, you can play the gotcha game, but that's not I'm not trying to play the game. I think you're used to like Anderson Cooper 360 and I'm a guy I'm from Town Podcast. I'm not I'm happy to answer whatever question you have. Well, yeah, whatever. Uh here's here's a question for you. Um, I think like uh I think uh you've established yourself as the fiercest uh champion of the state of Israel and Congress. I I've never described myself in those terms, but uh I I'm pro- Israel, but I those are terms. Well, I think maybe you've been dubbed that. Yes. Okay. Listen, like I'm a Jewish person. Like I have my own opinions on this. You have your own opinions. And this is a really frustrating conversation to see people have on the internet. I' I don't get an opportunity to talk to to talk to someone that's uh making decisions and supporting these things that are a huge deal to people right now. Yeah. One thing that I thought was interesting and I I want to start with you is that uh you described your first trip to Israel in 2015 as a life-changing experience. And I I just wanted just to follow the narrative of like you growing up and and your struggles and then going into the government like what what is what was that experience like and what what bred that passion for Israel in you? Well, since I grew up poor my whole life, I never had an opportunity to travel abroad. Yeah. So the first time I ever trip went to a foreign country. So it was life-changing because you went on a trip part of the reason went abroad for the first time. life life-changing, but also, you know, when you go to when you experience the complexity of Israel, go to the old city. What did you see? Like, what did you witness? Like, well, go to the old city. Yeah. Yeah. I've been there. Yashm, which is the Holocaust Museum. Yeah. Yeah. Go to the Msada where you know, Jews committed mass suicide to escape enslavement. I've hiked Msada. The Gaza Envelope. Yeah. Went to stay route. Spoke to the local mayor who said that. You went to Gaza? I did not go to Gaza. No. Would you say Gaza Envelope? No. Gaza envelope which is which is which is right on the border with it's Israel but it's right at the border with Gaza so it's right next to the fence it's in the proximity to what what's it what's at the Gaza envelope like I've never heard that term stay road stay road yeah with the rockets going yeah how far is stay from Gaza it's like a mile or something yeah within a mile yeah it's right next to it yeah striking proximity tough this small place the whole thing yeah I mean that's why Hamas was able to so easily penetrate on October 7th the by getting over the fence Yeah. And it's so close. Yeah. No, I mean I just want to know because it seems like it was powerful and it seems like it's informed your record and I I I that's what's interesting to me. It's like your story and how you got here and like I think it's narratively what what fascinates me. Maybe one day you'll give me a chance to tell it. So why are you annoyed by this question? I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Uh so I spoke to a local mayor of Stay Waitro. I wrote Yeah. And he said to me that the majority of his children struggle with post-traumatic stress because families like his live under the threat of relentless rocket fire. And I remember seeing these bus stops doubling as bomb shelters. You know, I come from the Bronx where people live in fear of bullets and guns, but um you know, we in America do not worry about Canada and Mexico firing rockets into American homes and communities. You know, we're a country of 330 million people. We're surrounded by oceans and Israel is a tiny democracy the size of New Jersey that's literally surrounded by both state and non-state actors that are intent on wiping it off the map. So yeah, you know, I left Israel with an empathy for the unique security situation that Israel faces. Did you visit the ter occupied territories while you I went into the not Gaza but I went into the Palestinian Ramal Ramla. So yeah, Ramla. Yeah. And what what did you see when you were there? you know, we spoke to Palestinians who obviously have a much more critical view of of Israel and um and that didn't resonate as much as like what what was your take away from hearing you're hearing the mayor stay wrote his his children have PTSD and then this guy's like uh Israel's screwing with me. Well, look, I'm in favor of a two-state solution. Sure. I feel like the just outcome lies not in the existence of a Jewish state to the exclusion of a Palestinian state or the existence of a Palestinian state to the exclusion of a Jewish state. It's the coexistence of both. So I think I want to see the struggle the both the Israeli and the Palestinian struggle for self-determination to be reconciled in the form of a two-state solution. A big topic nowadays is campus anti-semitism. You've spoken out against it. I just want to know what you identify as the examples of this type of anti-semitism in elite academic institutions. Yeah. So, there were students at a cuni halal. Yeah. Where you had a violent what I thought was an aggressive mob following them to a kosher restaurant in the heart of New York City. And what were they doing the mob? What was the mob doing? Just following them and then barricaded the restaurant. and like chanting hurling hurled insults at the patrons and slamming the windows. You know, much of it is captured in video footage and you know harassing people simply for being pro-Israel Jews to me is wrong. Is there any other examples like there's a restaurant? I mean it's just like all we're hearing about campus anti-semitism radical radical like is there a link between Hamas and the protests? like has is that established? Well, there are students who have faced harassment and intimidation because of their beliefs. There are students who feel inhibited from expressing their Jewish or Zionist identity because of the atmosphere of intimidation or harassment on college campuses. You should speak to the Are you denying that there's any campus anti-semitism or I Well, I'll give you an example. Um I I know a younger person that is went to UCLA and was attacked and it's Jewish and was with a group of Jewish people on at at the at a protest and they were attacked by the Proud Boys. Okay. That's anti- that's an anti-Semitic incident. No, but the Proud Boys were there for Israel there and those are the guys that did the Proud Boys are there for Israel. Yeah. I think of the Proud Boys as like white nationalists and white supremist. I'm telling you right now, we're anti-Israel. But okay, listen. I'm a I'm like a comedian, right? Like I hate when comedians, especially on the internet, like speak with from a position of authority with like about um crap that they don't know about. You know, this is one topic I feel like I can speak on and uh it on college campus anti-semitism. No, on on uh on anti-semitism and in general because you haven't been in college how long? Probably two decades, right? I'm telling you on my experience of anti-semitism the last two years but uh the last two years have felt different in America and um I don't know if you've been on Twitter recently now a ton of people are questioning the validity of the Holocaust having happened. Yes. Can you tell me with a straight face that that that's those are the 18-year-old kids at Colombia that are doing that? the 18-year-old kids at Columbia. Are they doing those posts about about the Holocaust never having existed? You know who's doing it? No, we disagree here. You think that it's the So, I didn't You don't put words in my mouth. It's the It's It's people on the right. Let me tell you. You're suggesting that there's You're suggesting there's You're suggesting there's no one on the far left that denies the Holocaust or downplays the Holocaust. That's an obsession. What are you're doing moot court right now? I'm telling you what it's like to be Jew. My experience being Jewish, but there are others who have a different trying to see you're why why is one better than the other? Why is one more important than the other? I'm trying to share with you. You're in the government. I don't get a chance to talk. Okay. Um I think hatred of Jewish people has exploded in this country. And I don't think it's I think it's because it's of our support of what looks to be an absolute brutality. And I think that you think that's a justification for anti-semitism. Here's the thing. You think Israeli government policy is a justification for anti-semitism? My view is there's no justification for anti-is. I think that there's zero justification for anti. Okay, you're deflecting again. I'm not. That's my position. What does it look like to have a flag with a Jewish star and I'm Jewish and for kids to be starving right now? And why is my government I don't want to do this fight. Let's not do like a yelling at each other thing. I really just for me it's for me I had the the experience of it just sounds like you're justifying anti-semitism which making me feel like are you crazy right now? Okay. Why would I do that? You're telling you're doing the I'm Hamas thing. I'm not saying you're not but it's I'm not I think we'll do a different We'll do a different tact. Israeli government policy should have no bearing on if if if you have disagreements with the Israeli government, you should voice your criticism of the Israeli government. But there is no justification for intimidation or harassment against American Jews. I'm telling you as a Jew right now that that we are receiving a lot more hate because of what the people with a flag that has a Jewish star on are doing to other people right now. And I'm telling you as a Jewish person what how painful it is for us to say and it hurts my stomach to say this. So you're going to say I disagree. magic grade that this is a genocide. And that hurts to say that a Jew could do that. It hurts because we grew up with the with learning about what hatred is. We we grew up learning about this. And the same year the state of Israel was established in 1948, the the the world saw the Holocaust and they established standards for what a genocide is. It was the same year. And the world said that this shouldn't be a thing that happens, you know, and and and I and I just wonder like like it doesn't make sense to me like like what like I don't know. It it doesn't track to me why there's this fixation with kids at a school that and two examples of people at a restaurant that that there was banging. Two examples. I mean there there are surveys on this. Give me the read the EDL surveys on it because it's hard it's hard for me to talk about this in in public. Clearly I mean you're it's you're being a dick. That's mean. No, no, I'm not being clear. It's an emotional topic. All right, I'll share with you what happened. I'm not with I lived there to be mean. Sir, I I lived there when I was 18 and I grew up a Zionist and we were told and our whole community in this country is told that we have to defend Israel and love Israel because it will stop at the Holocaust. It will stop another Holocaust from happening. And I my parents my dad was born in 1951. That was six years after the these atrocities. his friends, parents, he knew these people that had been through this hell, these skeletons and and it terrified us and and the understanding in our community is that we have to defend Israel. But it's I lived there and I went to a se a settlement at the end of my year there and I looked down the hill at a Palestinian village and I saw how they lived and I turned back and I looked at the settlement and saw how they lived and people live in a in a world where they're demeaned and dehumanized and surveiled constantly by people in and this isn't in Gaza by people in SWAT team outfits with with semi-automatic weapons. And that's what the world is seeing. And you keep telling me that the problem is someone's getting yelled at at a restaurant. I'm sorry. You're conflating two different issues. I don't Please just please me saying this to you right now will hurt people in my own family, okay? Because because this is a very important thing to us. And the fact that I still [ __ ] care about being Jewish is embarrassing. I should just be a guy. But but it but this is feels like a stain on our history and it feels like it's changed what being Jewish is because what being Jewish is isn't Israel. Judaism has existed for 4,000 years. This is a country for 75 years. You know like it it is the oldest one of the oldest monotheistic religions. It's it is anti-semitism is one of the oldest forms of hatred. People in my life are going to be mad at me about this, but but I'm saying this because I am Jewish, you know, and and and I don't understand why you would be look how you def I I I want I feel like I'm here to be lectured, not Shut up. That's not nice. You can't talk that way. Why are one set of Jews more important than than others? saying no one's saying any you're what happened you had you went to the beach at the in Israel what you went to a restaurant or something a nice restaurant like listen never been never never even been to the Tel Aviv Pride parade so this is the year 2025 the world is seeing something that looks terrible and it's being done in my name and I don't know what to do but the war began on October 7th No it didn't yes it did you're Yes. When Hamas systematically murdered and made you can, you know, you want you want, look, we're going down a rabbit hole. We fundamentally disagree. No, we don't murdered and maimed and mutilated and abducted and tortured thousands of people. That's not television. That's a fact. That's reality. You can deny it. You can downplay it. You're denying October 7th. Well, you seem to be I'm pro October 7th. You're doing I'm pro Hamas. I never said you were pro Hamas. You're putting words in my mouth. It is. But you seem to be downplaying it there. For the last 17 years, people have been under a blockade where they cannot leave. If you were born in a place and there's a fence there and there's a guy with a gun on the other side and he says you can't go anywhere, would you like that guy? If you deem if you treat people like animals, sometimes they're going to lash out. Look, I sincerely believe, maybe I'm wrong, that if if if Palestinians were governed not by a terrorist organization like Hamas and Gaza, but by a regime that was able and willing to make peace with Israel, the situation would be fundamentally different. The preconditions for this happening are undeniably something that the Israeli government was fully aware of. Why would BB then Yahoo? Okay, here's You think October 7th was justified? No. Okay, I'm happy you said that. Are you listening to what I'm saying right now? I am listening to what you're saying. Why would the Israeli government Hamas wants to eradicate the Jewish people and the Jewish state? Is that right? That's what Hamas has said. Yeah. Okay. that why would they directly give Hamas money literally bags of cash in suitcases through the Qataris billion nearly I think over a billion dollars in cash that's a during this last 17 years that's a fair point it's a great question if an if one of those kids at Colombia wrote a $5 check to Hamas you'd say send them to Gitmo for being a terrorist it's a fair point does that make Benjamin Netanyahu who a terrorist? He's supporting terror. The United States, it seems to me, the United States and Israel could have shut off the spigot and did not do so. I don't know why, but but that was a failure. There's no question. I um I I I think that what what I see is the reason why our government provides $25 billion to something that looks this horrific to people. I think is the same reason. I think it makes it look like there's that the Jews control the government, but really what it is is the more boring answer. It's the reason why the government and you guys don't get [ __ ] done. It's the reason why Sandy Hook could happen. You guys can't do gun reform. It's because why why can't we do gun reform? Because because special interest groups can buy influence in our government. Which political part is against gun reform? The NRA has a power. It's the Republican party. We allow government our government to be flooded with cash and money. And it's what's scary to me is that it looks that people are starting to question the Holocaust ever happening. How could Jews maybe they invented the Holocaust? You're blaming You're blaming Israel for Holocaust denial. I'm blaming our I'm blaming our government for supporting a genocide. But it is unfathomable in my heart and it breaks my heart that we could be capable of it. I think we should move on. Why is that? We just fundamentally disagree. So I don't think that I think I'm talking to you like uh about where I come from and and that it feels different and maybe I have a different perspective. You have a different perspective, but um I know people have a a perspective that's different from yours and Yeah. with a much smaller platform than you. I'm I'm not I hate this conversation. You know, I have it with my family, you know. It's It's not something And I love my family. If it were up to me, we would not be having this cuz we're speaking a foreign language. My family uh grew up in South Africa, right? We were like Jews from Eastern Europe that literally we thought we were going to Ellis Island. Mhm. My grandma all the granny's stayed and my my parents whole generation of South African Jews left and um when I was a kid like growing up I used to write all my uh like uh who's my hero essays on Nelson Mandela and uh he was like a hero of mine right and uh he was also you know in prison and you know for terrorism too. I don't want to get it. you're going to go Hamas is what? I don't want I'm not debating Hamas is good. He was called that and and he went to my synagogue after he got out of prison, Madiva. And and he uh and he spoke to like all the grandmas who like were still there. They didn't have to [ __ ] move cuz black people could vote. And he said, "Tell your kids to come back because we need them to build our country." I don't know. I I think that um I I don't see what's wrong with people being afforded the right to vote. Do you think that's what Hamas means when it says free Palestine from the river to the sea? To me, it seems like maybe if there's a recognition that people were cleared off their land in 1948, but there are those and there are those who only want a Jewish state and there are those who only want a Palestinian state that they could [ __ ] off and we should be advocating for the coexistence of Jewish state and a Palestinian state. I continue to believe I continue to believe a two-state solution ultimately is the inevitable path forward. That is it's stupid. You know, there were there were a third there were a thousand Jews who were murdered before the establishment of Israel. Like half a century before the establishment of Israel. Half is a thousand Jews. Yeah. There they were killing each other. Jews and Palestinians. Yeah. The Bron massacre. I it doesn't make sense to me this uh in a in 2025. The only point was was there was violence against Jews before the establishment of the state of Israel. There was violence against Palestinians and there was an ethnic cleansing in 1948. I mean, the Habbran massacre. What are you talking about right now? You're in the government? Listen, I just want to I'm sorry. You're not familiar with the Habbran massacre in 1929? Well, you're saying that that justifies an entire ethnic cleansing in 1948? Israel was a for Well, this is such a This isn't even a good argument. Hold on. Israel What are you talking? I don't I didn't realize we were debating. I don't want to do it. But you say the Jewish state, the Jewish state was established by international law, right? The UN passed a resolution. It's that recognized the establishment of a Jewish state and there were a number of Arab countries including Egypt that declared war on Israel. The war of independence and Israel won the war. The Palestinians didn't declare war on them. There were just people that were living there and they were kicked off their land. By the way, they were there were 800,000 Jews that were ethnically cleansed from the Arab world. Do you know why? No, there were Jew. You don't you know how many Jews there are? Not by the Palestinians. I'm not talking about the Pal. I'm talking about the broader Arab world. So why do the Palestinians have to bear the responsibility of the Algerians kicking the Jews out? You can relay. Why do Why do the Palestinians bear the responsibility of Egypt invading? Israel's been a state for 77 years. Bro, it's so depressing what you're saying. You're proposing You're proposing to undo an established state. No, I know people that live there. I have family that live there. I don't think that they should What are you proposing? I'm proposing a democracy. I'm proposing an extensive demographic study of what was taken and what was lost, extensive reparations for what that was taken, and a truth and reconciliation process where where we can end this [ __ ] What we're seeing right now is that members of the Israeli government are talking about clearing that [ __ ] out and Trump, our president, is talking about putting a [ __ ] jet ski museum there. And you're that's the reality right now. The far right. Yes, it's a view that I reject. So what the far right? I'm talking about the government and the generals that are that are in charge of Israel. The Bengavir, the smoltresses of the world. That's a view cabinet. Yes. And I reject them. That's what Hamas is saying they want to do to Israel. I'm sorry. I mean I mean Hamas murdered thousands of people. So there's no So what does that mean? that Hamas is a terrorist organization for murdering innocent children and civilians. How how many civilians have been killed in this war? The war is a tragedy. But 90% of them have been But the the 90% of them have civilians. They've killed journalists. They've killed journalists. People have been killed in a war. It's been a tragedy. They've killed people waiting for aid. But you're suggesting that that it is the policy of the Israeli government to murder civilians. And that's that is a notion that I reject. You got to like listen man, you got to be like a human being about this. People who are dying in the war, which to me is a tragedy because war is a tragedy. Do you feel in your heart that this is what you're do? What you're saying is right. If Hamas if you remove Hamas I don't actually think that. I told you what I believe. Don't tell me what I believe. I've told you what I believe. Why would you believe that? Because I because there are people who see the world differently. I know it's a shock to you, but there are people who see the world differently from me, but why I know that's a shock to you. Like I I it it seems a little bit like the humanitarian crisis has deteriorated. I don't want to be disrespectful like this. Well, you you've been at various points. In what capacity? You've just been hostile. So, in what capacity? It's fine. Don't worry. It's just been a gotcha interview. Um, I think that, um, my conscience is clear, especially as someone that's lived there and seen it and love people that live there. And um, this sucks. I really didn't want to do this. And I think that you saw it as gotcha. Well, this is what people are talking about, right? No, I get Well, not in not in the South Bronx. People are not talking about Israel. People are talking about how to put food on the table and pay the bill. Yeah. Maybe in your world that's what people are talking about. In my world people are struggling. So yeah, then why if people are struggling in your world are you paying $25 billion? We have a seven We have a $7 billion We have a $7 trillion budget in the federal government. Yeah. Right. Less than So it's not that much money. Less than 1%. So it's a little money went to Israel in the grand scheme of the federal budget. Yes. It's minuscu. I'm sorry dude. You're bummed. Your consultants told you not to do it. this. I like this guy a lot, too. I hate this. This is so embarrassing. I don't I don't I don't have anything to hide. I'm willing to go anywhere. No, man. I'm sorry. I I I uh I appreciate your time. Listen, having this opportunity is for me is a is a big deal. I don't I don't get to talk to someone in the government that's that's taking part in these big decisions like this. And uh I Well, only one of 535. Well, I'll talk to another one. Which one is would would like me? Virginia Fox. I don't know. Do you have her number? I don't have her number. No. All right. I I appreciate I feel like you're mad at me or something. I got to get a big laugh. Uh, look, it is this is it's like time and Roth from The Godfather, too. He said, "This is the life we've chosen." So, you know, I know what I signed up for. Is this what happens? This has been a terri I've been doing a terrible job. I'm rambling about Israel and the being a Jew and the Holocaust. It's the most embarrassing stuff to talk about in public. I feel like everyone every Jewish American has a right should have a right to be who they are to to wear a keepa to display a Star of David to be proudly and visibly Jewish without fear of harassment or intimidation or violence. Well, I mean the freedom to be who we are is like fundamental for all of us. Well, I think that um from where I'm sitting, Israel might be a threat to that. And you know, you have that view, but others have a different view. Why are we still having this interview? This is exhausting. I'm sweating. AC's on. I'm just trying to find a button to shake your hand, dude. I don't want to [ __ ] do this. We couldn't talk about so much other [ __ ] No, I think you had an agenda to speak about this. I really didn't have an agenda. I I really didn't. It's your number one topic. It's not my number one topic. It's just not. It is your It's not my number one topic. It's It's not what I saw. Well, then I saw I was not elected on Israel. You don't get elected in the South Bronx in I'm not trying to make you feel bad or like but you I just don't think you know what you're talking about. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] Heat. [Applause] [Music] Heat. [Music]