

so, after a long summer of not feeling like i can make much progress without some active thing to do i decided to get a job. even if its shitty, going back to the lifestyle before but with even a few more items or tools would better than nothing, so even though i know the current state of things mean working is futile, i decided to go for it. not really many jobs in decatur, hence having to get used to what happens when you cant reasonably find it, so the method for finding one is: apply for weeks and weeks and take the first thing that comes, because most like there WERENT jobs and one opened up, and will quickly be taken, and back to literally nothing hiring atm type shit. 

I get interview for kroger, not the one nearest me but that place is a shithole anyway, about 3 miles away. 

The interview went well. Its the kind of thing where they basically just ask you to like, name one thing that would be nice to do for a customer okay good enough you're hired. 

They onboard via video. Kind of a waste of time because the video will never understand that we are in decatur and half the things its teaching me will be stuff "we dont do" for whatever reason, and that we are such a shithole that we are so far from touching like... The video is expcting the bottom line is how well i do my job, in decatur the bottom line is if you can even get people to show up and what quality of work are you going to get from whoever chooses to put up with it all. Its really a "you're lucky i come in" situation so hard that, thats not MY stance im saying thats what im guarutneed to walk into. Either no job, or a place where they treat you like shit but they should be sucking you off. 

Its holiday times, thanksgiving. They warn me how bad its gunna get, because i am new and they dont have enough people without me, so im jumping into the fire. 

Im not really sure how my job is supposed to work at this point, its barely explained and piece at at time. I learn per thing. Like, the next thing I have to learn I learn that and do that and maybe next day I might learn one more thing. All I know for about a week is basically show up, take shit off pallets and put them on the shelves and face them. This is like 10 percent of the knowledge i should have at this point. At this stage my job is: go in at 10 when everybody leaves, its just me and another guy he pulls pallets from the truck and we stage them takes a couple hours, then we do aisles rest of shift. 

I work till 6:30 which is 30 minutes of customers are around but they dont give me an apron and the ball cap doesnt fit so i just dont wear it, nobody cares. 

At this stage, its obvious what I shitshow it is. They are talking about things like tracking our work and its not good enough but its the kind of things like, this store only runs because 2-3 people are doing fuck you shifts overnight so, you can eat me like, if you rattle me too hard it crumbles so im not even gunna engage. we're telling management this. theyre like, you gotta use myday, we are like, okay dude but no point im not finishing the aisles no matter waht, im barely conditioning becauuse there is SO MUCH work load you are LUCKY i refuse and focus on the bulk of the work, the heavy lifting, staying moving like a shark, fuck the rest you are lucky im doing that. Its not said in those words, and they are corporate they speak in silences, not by agreeing, but they effectively... like if i personify its like this: 

the big corporate lizard monster that is kroger is basically saying yea no ur right we aint gunna actually make decatur locations any better, we just let them run how they run and hope for the best yield. ur good. keep doing that. but again it doesnt say that, and abusive leaders will always expect more of you thats the default so the system is like ur good, our managers are like u suck do better, but also they know it would look fucking stupid to do jsut say u suck do better when we arent managed and im not trained, we need idk guidance? so they give us papers each night that say what aisles to do. they literally think parents that think "i should yell at my kid the problem is im not mean enough" or whatever like they think they can fix this problem not by helping the hardest workers, but by condescending and saying actually we can calculate that should you be doing more. its literally a laugh out loud type thing to assert that, and they kind of know it, they're just trying to justify their jobs so this all happens with a half ass effort. I know the game. I show up, i dont cause TOO MUCH problem, i am a net gain to the system, they'll actually work to keep me its that simple, just dont crash out over the here and now. The condescending manager is actually nice even, in person, not in that fake way either shes midwestern good soul, she puts the bullshit on paper via sending an email and printing it. Shes being a shitty boss on paper and giving herself a paper trail, shes not doing anything to me just for the record shes not like, enshitting my days or anything, its literally comedic how she has to be evil at me despite clearly not wanting to. 

So, then my paychecks stop coming in. Its a whole fucking saga. Basically something happened in their system and they are such a system its like, there is barely a way to get them to care its like ugh im busy being kroger what do you want little bitch? oh? ur paycheck? ugh i dont want to care about that right noooowww.... but i made them cuz i bitched enough made myself look competent enough to sue enough, but also showed up and did the job while i bitched so i was actually threatening their money not showing them i gave up already not worth it type shit. They finally sent the paychecks weeks later two at once which given what they said happened proves bullshit they acted like a system did at all but i know for a fact that two in one means SOMEONE went "oh shit oh shit send these NOW"

At one point, it had gone so long where they expected me work without pay that management bought me a $40 food card to keep eating. i said you see thats weird right, before i accepted, i forced them before accepting to acknowledge my postition and how fucked it is that not only can i not be paid and im expected to work, the money you are giving proves that you are aware that you are giving me just enough food to keep working, you should see theres.. im just gunna say thats in some ways unethical, its not nice, you see a poor person struggling and ur willing to pay out of pocket cuz ur job is to keep the ship running you are literally a slaver in this moment just know that, they undrestood so i took the money. $40 at a grocery store in 2025 is like two things. I dont let hit my soul that its insultingly low. Like in other words my life is my life, the view of that...  thats on them to realize how fucked up it is, if i let myself take "$40 is like two things these days" as anything but comedic, like haha isnt it funny how fucked, i wouldnt be cool with that. I CANNOT in this moment let myself minmax this money, because i cant... idk i do a lot in this world, but i cannot make my brain ration that money when they owe me hundreds just because it may never come and i may need to keep working for weeks off  that $40. Im not buying 35 cans of beans just because tahts what i logically should be doing. Thankfully the food lasted a few days and I got paid. 

Before I got paid, at the peak of my starvation for the job, they had this "meeting to discuss our productivity" which as I said cannot be improved we are doing miracles for them as it stands, so they dont really have a WAY to be like this and they know it, so they are posturing, the meeting looks like something. But, we have to do it, so here it goes. Heres night shift as it stands: Mark is lead, been there forever, mitch is not lead but also been there like 20 years. Me, connor, and brian are pulled into jodi's office basically to watch videos again but discuss like job theory, like how you are supposed to do things the kroger way. Its funny cause i keep bringing up points like, okay there is more work than people so if we have to choose between getting it all done the right way and barely finishing, or finishing the work but its not perfect which do we choose? and she keeps giving non answers like "well ideally you would do both" and its a full waste of everybodys time, if you cant give actionable direction... i mean we all know they arent gunna hire a night manager which is the only thing that would help so, its all a waste of time, i ask these questions basically to prove to the system that we do care and are trying and its their fault, i ask simply so they cant say we arent doing that, but am not shocked by what im hearing. Until she says, oh btw you guys use the bathroom a lot we need that to stop, dont use the bathroom at all if you can help it actually. Im sure jodi heard me chuckle. She went about the rest of the meeting and then next was "she was gunna stay over and teach us all conditioning" so she wraps up the meeting and she goes... guys you all have this look on your face like "this was totally stupid and a waste of my time" and was genuinely asking like, are we just tired or do we have that face on like whats up, this was as we're all getting up to leave the managers office and I go "well, idk I just think maybe this place should be as concerned with paying when they're supposed as to how much i piss" and she went :O and i was like "priorities, yknow?" and she just went "uhhhh yea" and went white and hurried off. Connor goes damn bro i was like shit am i wrong tho he said nah. 

an hour and half later me and connor are working an aisle and he goes... i havent seen jodi i thought she was gunnna.... "help" lmao. what happened to that? he says with a tone of never expecting it be real. I said my bad bro, shes probably scared of me right now. 

eventually she shows up, no answer for the time im pretty sure i was right im pretty sure she had to go like, collect herself in the bathroom i say only to say like, i look like rob zombie genetically so when im pissed, rare, its probably pretty scary cuz i dont like to scare people for no reason, so its probably like "oh fuck hes right to be pissed" kind of thing, i say only to say i dont think i offended her just probably became smoeone ur like yikes that guy is jacked i dont wanna be on his bad side ima hide for a bit... hopefully i didnt actual actual scare her. 

So, she actually does try to help teach conditioning. the problem is that "kroger way" has been shifting over the years, so at some point it used to be that they did things in a way that made sense to doing some things in ways that benefit certain parties, like the whole justifying jobs thing clearly has eaten the company culture to where its not coherent anymore. Mark and mitch just do whatever they do and can barely remember the right way because they are grandfathered in, jodi cant explain anything because shes looking for the thing that makes the most sense from a management position, im doing what makes the most sense from "i dont have a lot of time i need to make it look ideal for the customer while also not doing all of it" perspective and i can feel in a sense "old man kroger" would be telling me something different than new rules like... Jodi wants everything in such a way that she can instantly glance and see the count, but so does that mean stuff gets faced or no? its not coherent, because mark is telling me like, fill the gaps, but jodi is telling me do what mark says to do but l also push everything to left, so which is it do i fill the gaps or do i push everything to left? It makes the most sense for the shelf not have blank spaces, but those blank spaces help mangement do stocking... I dont say it like "bro look in the mirror you're the fucked one" type way that ive been explaining now. I just play curious, like wait, but mark said this, do i do this, or that? full well knowing none of this is real or matters, and idk what i expected but im like.. jodi this isnt constent and she keeps being like "yea i know, just....  hmmmmm okay maybe for now just do this" which doesnt make sense because... ive dealt with corrupt authoritiy where sometimes they realize, it feels like if it were possible to realize this would be the moment where she goes, actually ur a grown up you know what ur doing ill leave you to it and just try and pay you more if i want better work.... almost, becasue she cant say it even if it clicks, she basically just tries for a little bit and then goes, like how about you just ask mark if you have questions and do whatever im actually super tired this is way passed my bedtime im gunna go home. 

At this point, i was like yea... the human in front of me is not mentally capable with even a conversation with me at this point. My job is crossfit, im at my peak, and im not being paid, and im being fed bullshit, and im bodying all that by being a happy chipper person not faking it im saying thats my power level, im deaing with that and im in "poor people have to be strong both physically and mentally" world and shes in "im a normal american i just justify my job and each day is easy for me" world so she cant just, decide to stay up past her bedtime. No condescention i get it,  its literally that. so im like, yea jodi best go home. 

I dont say this but its like yea lets let the grown ups handle this. (shes literally the mom of someone i went to high school with lmao) (think about the comedy of that, or i guess the comedy to the fact that theres truth to it)

At one point they try having me decide who works which aisles.. idk why theres no point it just makes connor feel bad like why did they pick me, but connor hates the job so its low key thats why i do to but i fake it better

they give up on the papers and the teaching. connor quiet quits, i bitch about not getting paid until it finally fucking happens. couple weeks go by business as usual. they fire connor out of nowhere "cuz he vapes on the floor, doesnt condition well, and is slow" and its like ???? i am all of those things xD but obviously its like, well he's 19 and isnt quiet quieting quietly so hes obvoiusly teh weakest link. 

bullshit, cuz hes not a drain, hes net positive. now shifts are gunna be 2 dudes instead of 3. 

I wanted some easy part time thing. I have found myself working 40 hours a week at a total hellscape environment place where I listen to corpo pop on loop, work my ass off (im getting fucking jacked), walk 3 miles to and from, and really dont make shit after taxes. I dove right back into the american nightmare most of my peers are trapped in, as someone who figured the way out. It would feel really bad if I had to do this, the fact that nobody does this isnt working means, i get to enjoy up close this thing i care about, the american decline. Sometimes when I have a bad time, its okay because I know that lots of other people are, and itll be more interesting and relatable to talk to them when i have some shared experience. Im not gassing myself up this is real, i could have a comfy life but bored and stagnant, or i can have some progress that feels like hell and builds to nothing (in terms of the money of it all, the american dream of it all). I was so detached because i was fully outside consumerism for two years straight at least being paid jack shit i get to experience this america a little bit, even if i think the current state of things are bad and "one shouldnt think its okay to engage" or whatever like im not at risk of rebelieveing.... Its more like.. war shit or third world shit or something its like, as a philosopher brained person its like hey at least im getting to taste what everybody is going through in my country. I could be free or enslaved and we are mostly an enslaved people so pick ur poison. That, plus the fact that getting physically strong is a huge goal of mine, as well as gaining mass and working at food store helps. That is the reason I do this. Each and every day I dont quit is a blessing to kroger, not me. I dont need this job so im one of the very very rare people that would work a fuck you shit job in decatur but also have a single other option let alone many. 

 


update:

random thoughts its worth including this. so, by the way, the money isnt just not good, its so telling of where our country is at. we used to talk about how crazy it was that my generation has physically done the labor that used to buy men homes and cars and get to start families, if you displace most of us in time we would have two homes by now according to old timey work = money math. Inflation has gotten worse passed that point, so its one thing to accept "ill never own a home" but it escalates to "im lucky to live in an apartment comfortably" to "im lucky that i live indoors" and we are now too the point where you can literally live rent free and just not pay any bills, and then get a job at a grocery store and for the work to money think, oh my holy fucking god this is insane. as in the old word in your mind would "unsustainable" well... it actually wasnt so now we are in the zone where you either idk died or figured life out somehow and those of us trying to get a job are like... wait but why? Okay so again, old timey logic is man work job buy house, my generation was forced to come to realities like thats long passed okay now imagine a time in the 2000s up to 2010s where you are complaining like, this is bullshit wage slavery is so stagnant there is no upward mobility for people all that stuff... My point here is imagine checking into those conversations with an update on what 2026 is like and the way i would explain to them how it feels to get my paycheck and see the numbers that they are, is this weird feeling that only a few years ago the shittiest possible life in america still meant you probably could afford to buy an xbox and maybe not regular games but you could afford to pay for the bare minimum like apartment, tv, xbox, call of duty and internet... maybe you have a cheap phone and a bill, thats like the average guy and we feel bad for him broadly/politically but thats also most people we know is just like a guy who plays halo and smokes weed and is resigned this life and you dont blame him because nobody can see a mechanism where its his fault or how he gets out, its just the modern trap which is the system working as designed so... yea make a movie about it or something lol... but anyway imagine going to that person whos like writing that script and painting that picture and being like btw 2026 is when you dont even get the xbox. like if 2006 is oh hey im a loser stoner i work at blockbuster my job isnt that hard but all i get for it is to hang out with my friends at a bar and shit like that, and 2011 is like kind of the same but with wifi and a playstation.. imagine going nah you dont do easy work for a job post covid that same job would be 2 peoples jobs and theyve been making it harder on purpose since to test the limits of the kind of person who works in todays times its only the strongest so they fuck you as hard as possible, and then on top of it you dont get the xbox. you dont a used nintendo. you get not enough for that and then by the next paycheck you look at ur money and go what did i buy and the answer you come up with is nothing really and so it feels like you are working to work, which has felt so true so long you cant deny it, and ur like, wondering how long everybody you know and talk to and hear from online  and on  tiktok can feel the exact same way before it bursts so if everybody feels that way might as well keep clocking in cuz its not like a you thing. I'm trying to do the thing where I go oh its not that bad and settle into it but im literally so acclimated to the old world where you picked some thing, that if you were being consipiracy guy in the moment could call a pacifier for the masses, and nowadays i cant even think of something like that i can reasonably afford in the same way. I could save up for sure, but thats not the point, the point is comparing myself along the timeline in order to explain to someone like, how the money of it all feels these days. It feels like, I either consider modern times like basically wartimes and just make it through is enough for my truly and spiritually, or if i try and engage in "america" brain like we always have it just doesnt work, i would have to ignore too much bad math, it doesnt make sense anymore to be the... like idiot stoner guy who blows his paychecks when he technically could do something smart with them who's technically right to not try since technically the math on effort to gain isnt there in america anymore aka american dream long dead so like... yea you cant even trick yourself into falling into that lane anymore. Thats whats getting to me the most about how little my paychecks are. Its just the normal "ouch, thats not much for what i did" its literally like laugh out loud numbers if you factor in everything, like "men used to buy houses" and "men used to buy xbox's" of it all. Im looking at my past self and friends who used to buy a nintendo switch off 1-2 paychecks the way us post 2000s folks look at boomers talking about buying a car off a paycheck like oh look at me mr crazy fancy past man who can buy a whole driving machine with one paycheck like oh look at me im mr rich 2017 boy i can buy a whole xbox i own a whole xbox i dont have to rent my gametime from bezos i can just play my own gamez cuz i can just buy my own xbox machine... it feels the same and thats crazy. modern me is dead ass looking at gaming laptops the way we used to look back at homes like wow the lavishness of ownership imagine owning a whole computer and it didnt take years of grinding to achieve that one purchase woooow. XD

Update:

So the "kroger way of doing things" is insane. Its one of those places thats so bad its below an arbitrary threshold of badness where.. well its a little more ideal than right above it. You get the sense that many people in the past had a worse time than you when the system was trying and its now fully given up. 

So at first I was doing radical acceptance thing where I was doing everything they said, in some jobs this works because they see themselves wasting you as an employee on the concept of bullshit and you force their hand to go "fuck it just do stuff best you think" and you get to go "duh" or whatever. This isnt that kind of place. 

So im overnight grocery. There is a couple other me's and one Mitch who is a me but has been there for his whole adult life. There is one "mark" which i guess our "lead" its hard to tell because he doesnt do much leading. He trained me very poorly I assumed by my training that this was a less serious job than it was because he basically just got me started stocking shelves and taught me one aspect of the job each day, or I'd questions if I had any. They are half ass pushing us to do stuff "the kroger way" and I think I am for the most part besides outright being lazy on purpose and not doing stuff (like not fully conditioning my aisles), except I mean that when it comes to like, how we put stuff on shelves. As far as how we operate our shift, that still does not make sense to me. People say stuff to me and Ive stopped even paying attention because there isnt a coherence. Even mitch will do something and mark will come and go "i wouldnt have done that" if the 20 year workers cant figure out or agree the kroger way there clearly isnt one way to be learning. 

So I basically just unload pallets and put them on carts when I get in. If someone else hasnt pulled the pallets from the truck, I stand around in an aisle and eat a breakfast snack or something because fuck it, its been enough time there should be a thing for this. They claim they have invented a solution of having one worker at 10 and the others at 10:30 and they sometimes do that, so in theory they ARE doing the solution, so technically when they dont do it that way... this is the classic kroger feeling... they claim they solved with with a "kroger way" of doing something and they dont do that thing but im literally alone in a night time grocery store to figure it out, and even if I find another human they wont know either, so I just go fuck it and go about my day best I can. Anyway, I just unload for about 2 hours or until we seem done-ish. 

When brian works, he pulls the full pallets down an aisle and parks it there. This is stupid and it makes it so you cant help him because you dont know what he put where for what reason, whats under other things etc... and you cant get  down aisles, so i just work off my own other pallettes the ones he puts on the main floor and let him deal. I also make the people i work with handle the wierd extra end stuff like i focus on doing 2 hours of obvious, like cans of soup go in the cans aisle type work so that im not not helping out, but then I dont bother with the other stuff just because of the inconsistency. 

So today I did aisle 11 like I usually do its cans/pickles/dressing/condiments its a big aisle I like getting it done as my first everyday, then I find other easier aisles to move to. Today I was like, fuck it im tired enough to give myself a break a bit so I go for the next aisle im technically assigned on MyDay which is 13, the toilet paper and paper towel aisle. Heres the thing tho, its not staged and theirs like 3 pallettes down by the end caps like by the floating little things grocery stores have to hold donuts and weird stuff by the milk doors like floating in the floor yknow we push those to the side and set stuff there so you can get around still.. Now, heres the thing.. in another job id be pissed that at this point in working i dont know why this is like this. This is why I dont understand the staging part of our job. Somehow this is right and i dont understand. I know from past experience trying to paper aisle... Mark has come up to be before and said stuff like 'just work it' or whatever that I dont understand. I know that if I look at this and go "well i need to stage this" and start putting boxes in front of where they go in the aisle so i can work my aisle mark will be like "thats not it" or "i wouldnta done that like that" so i decide ULTRA fuck it, not only am I gunna give myself a break by doing the lightweight items aisle, im gunna fucking grift this. Mark said over and over "work it straight like that" so im gunna pull an item down, and walk it where it goes, then walk all the way back out of the aisle to the endcap area to get another item. Of course after a few of these mark comes by and is like hey actually it probably makes sense to work a food aisle. Im like uh okay if you say so boss man. Like fuck It im just working what the app says if you want me to not do this I wont do it. Then hes like, actually you should do this a more effecient way. Okay, i dont say this obviously, fuck you cuz no shit asshole we should do things a way thats logical but we dont soooooo... yea i dont say that i say something normal but i basically tell him. I dont understand what is different about a paper product versus a food product. We are a store that sells things, we make the money from selling things, they come in boxes, i stock the stuff from palletes that are in boxes... why would I not just stage the paper aisle with the rest of the stuff. Of course he's not having an answer so Im just like.. not even a performance im basically with body language letting mark know... Image i had said "I am here. I will work. I will not be grumpy or upset if you tell me to do this or that. However, i am fucking stupid. I will do obvious things if they make sense. Stock the shelves, makes sense. Do what the app says makes sense. Dont stage paper stuff cuz somehow thats ineffecient to do but its effecient to do when its pasta noodles. I am too stupid. Just tell me where to go or what to do in any given moment." If they want a worker they got a worker, if they want a worker that self-manages they dont pay me a manager salary and mark doesnt lead so I'll just do whatever I think is best and if they keep fucking my mental and changing around what im supposed to do to the point idk what to do. fuck it. ill find some god damn boxes and open them and put shit on the shelves. if all else fails, ill hide in the bathroom or walk around looking busy. I dont actually care. Im not there to care. Im there to be in the building while clocked in and the rest is so i dont get fired and get to do that some more nothing else matters. 

But now I literally have no idea to what to ever do about paper besides never do it, never stage it, and if its the next thing to do im gunna go around looking for other stuff to do before doing the paper aisle cuz mark said that one time not to do it. I went into myday and paused the aisle and where it asks for a reason I said "mark said not to do this aisle" which is a bit cheeky on my part cuz technically he did say that but it looks really bad and someone will probably see that and go uh oh he shouldnt be saying that

Some places you have like a meeting before the shift starts with a boss. We have anti-that. We have no meeting, no boss, sometimes mark is there, sometimes he says something to you and sometimes hes just there to work his shift and go home. He comes up to me once, when he first gets there, and makes one comment usually a quick "ur doing something wrong" comment so much so that my first thought about him was "he just finds something no matter what in order to do that". I havent seen a manager in weeks not since I wasnt getting paid. Im not doing a great job of describing cuz it sounds like mark is doing more than he is like most of the time hes just there, so my concept of management is: there isnt some. It truly feels weird to day by day walk into a grocery store as it empties out... ive walked in while talking to buddies on discord and just started my shift with an ongoing discord hangout in my earbuds and just continued it because I work alongside mitch not for him so theres no reason to even put on a face when I walk in... its "my" job and thats so weird. 

