(suspenseful music) (keyboard keys rattling) - Hmm, weird. I've been looking for a video that has almost entirely disappeared from the internet, but I finally got a copy. - When Donald Trump was president, life was a lot better. He's been clear: he does not support a federal abortion ban, and that's why I'm with Trump. - Okay, so why did someone put a bunch of effort into scrubbing it from the entire internet? That's the first thing I want to find out. It's time to print some paperwork. (cheerful music) In October of 2024, someone spent around $20 million on digital media, like Facebook ads, Instagram ads, supporting Donald Trump. Meta publishes data about this spending. In one of those reports, we see that they spent around $350,000 to show a version of this ad, targeting mostly women under 44 and focusing almost entirely on Pennsylvania, Michigan, North Carolina, and Wisconsin. Okay, we're getting somewhere, but who paid for the ad? Well, these ads are required to disclose who paid for it. And right here in the video you can see that it was quote, "Paid for by RBG PAC." PAC stands for Political Action Committee, and RBG is Ruth Bader Ginsburg, the liberal, pro-choice Supreme Court justice. So did she pay for it? No, she died in 2020, four years before this ad ran. Okay, let's go to rbgpac.com. Unsurprisingly, it doesn't exist anymore. And thank you Wayback Machine. Here it is, Trump and RBG, side by side. "Great minds think alike." Okay, this is kind of weird, like RBG, Trump, not on the same side. Okay, let's look at their disclosure paperwork. The only name on these documents is... May Mailman. who is May Mailman? May Mailman. She's a prominent Republican lawyer, frequent guest on Fox News. It looks like she's had a bunch of prominent jobs in the government, but none of this suggests that she has $20 million to burn on Facebook ads to elect Trump. And it looks like journalists have asked her before about this and she hasn't wanted to respond. Okay, but they are required to disclose like, how much money they've gotten. And here on their report of receipts and disbursements, it's a bunch of zeros. Zero, zero, zero, zero. According to this paperwork, these people haven't received donations or have any cash on hand, which, that doesn't make sense, how do they spend $20 million on Facebook ads? So if we were in the election season of 2024, this is where the paper trail ends, we would not be able to know who paid for that ad. And the reason for that is that federal regulations say that, "Any money received after October 16th doesn't have to be disclosed until December of that year." That's a month after the election. So anyway, the ads ran, the election happened, Trump won. (triumphant music) And then a month after the election, RBG PAC has to file its disclosure on who gave them all this money. Here we go, now we're getting somewhere. I see numbers, lots of numbers, big numbers, $20 million donated from, drum roll, please. Elon Musk Revocable Trust. Mystery solved, I guess. So what is Elon Musk Revocable Trust? Well, it's Elon Musk's personal legal entity where a lot of his wealth sits. Like, it's actually this trust that owns a lot of his Tesla stock. And this is what he used to funnel 20 million of his dollars into RBG PAC to make and distribute ads like the one we saw. - When Donald Trump was president, life was a lot better. - By the way, $20 million was kind of a flash in the pan for Musk. In total, he spent around $290 million on the election, which is like, I think an all time record. And after the election was done, new paperwork was filed, dissolving RBG PAC. The website was deleted, the YouTube channel was gone, the Twitter account was deleted. So at first, this doesn't seem that far out of the ordinary. RBG PAC looks like just another election season ad campaign to influence voters. In this case, trying to convince women in swing states that even if you support abortion, you can still vote for Trump. But what all this paperwork shows me is that this is actually a way for one rich man to pour a huge amount of money into influencing the election without anyone knowing it was him. And none of this was illegal. It followed all the rules. Oh, and Musk was one of several rich Americans who funneled over $50 million into this election cycle, and coming from both sides of the political spectrum. In total, almost $15 billion was spent on the 2024 election. But how much is $15 billion? Like, is that a lot? We have a pretty big country. What happens if you control for population? Whoa, okay, yep, we spend a lot of money on elections here. And what's crazy is that even during these divided times, we all seem to agree on one thing, which is that there should be limits on how much someone can spend to influence politics. Even when you split this out by party, it still is the same. So we all agree this should change, but it's not. And there are limits. How is it that some people are spending tens or even hundreds of millions of dollars? So I've been talking to people who understand this issue on all sides. Some who think there's too much money in politics. - I think it's profoundly dangerous for people to have that much influence through their money. - And some who believe that there shouldn't be limits on money in politics. - I just don't think that that can be in accordance with the First Amendment. - And honestly, before we dive in, can I just say, I know this sounds kind of boring. Campaign finance. I mean, come on. But I'm convinced that this is one of those areas where a big reason sneaky, corrupt behavior is allowed to happen is because of how boring it all sounds. There are people who benefit when you and I get bored by this. So let's try to change that today. To understand how money actually moves through our elections. And to do that, there's someone I need to introduce you to. - Oh come on. - Johnald. - Hi, I'm Johnald Harris III. I can't get my monocle to stick in, but that doesn't matter because I'm super rich and I'm gonna guide you through this journey. A little about myself. I am the 1% of the 1% in this country. I'm rich beyond what you or anyone you know will ever achieve. And there's one thing I want in this world. I wanna make a difference by becoming politically active. Wait, no, no, no, not like that. I want to do it with my money. What kind of influence do I wanna have? Well, I wanna influence elections, who gets elected. Maybe I want politicians who will cut taxes and regulation. Maybe I want politicians who will take climate change more seriously, or who will advocate for a stronger relationship with Israel. Or who like progressive taxes, or who are business friendly. You don't need to know that, it's my business. But throughout this video, you will be checking back with me, rich Johnald, to see what sort of political influence I'm legally allowed to spend my money on. I'll see you soon. - Okay, thanks Johnald, we'll see you in a second. - Wait, there's a third one of me and I'm the one who's going to thank today's sponsor because that's how we make videos. Sometimes money in politics is actually not hidden. Like lately, Trump demolished a part of the White House and is building a several hundred million dollars ballroom and he's doing it with money from donors. And we know who those donors are. It's like a lot of tech companies and a bunch of rich families. Okay, is this bad or good or what should I think about this? Totally depends on who you ask or what news you read, which is why I rely on Ground News, my preferred news outlet, because it is a place where I can actually get answers. Ground News is an app and a website that helps me see the full picture. It aggregates news from all around the world into one place so that I can quickly compare coverage. I can uncover political bias, factuality, who owns these different outlets, all in one place. Let me show you what this looks like. If we applied it to the ballroom donor story, I can immediately see that 170 sources reported on this story. I can see that left-leaning outlets emphasize the high cost and the fact that there were donors, but that they do so with high factuality. Whereas the right leaning outlets defend this project and frame it as patriotic, and that there's mixed factuality in this article. I can dig even deeper by filtering, by ownership, factuality or location to get the full context before drawing my own conclusions. I've relied on Ground News for years now because it gives me something that no other platform can, which is real transparency into all the ways that something is being covered, which is more and more important these days, helps me stay ahead of the narrative. And unlike most platforms, it is completely subscriber funded. There's no corporate influence deciding what you see. So if you wanna get on the unlimited plan, which has all of these features and a bunch more that I didn't even mention, you can give 40% off if you use the link in my description. It is ground.news/johnnyharris. Or you can just scan this QR code on screen and that'll take you right there. You can get this plan for only five bucks a month. And in the process, help support and protect the system of the free press that helps protect us. Pretty important stuff. Thank you, Ground News for sponsoring today's video. With that, let's dive back in. - I first need to just say that money doesn't always mean victory in our democracy. You can raise a lot of money and still lose. There's a lot of research on this that shows that money does help, but it's not a guarantee that you'll win. What does it buy? Why are all these rich people so intent on getting their dollars into the political machine? And the answer is because it buys access and influence. And by the end of this video, I want us to all understand exactly what that looks like, how it's actually happening. - Excuse me, can I come back into the story now, please? - Yeah, I was just getting started with my part, but whatever, go ahead. - Let's go back to a time when things were a little different. How about right here, the 1970s? Hey look, it's my corporate lawyer friend, Lewis Powell. He's been busy doing God's work, defending cigarette companies against the American Cancer Society. It's 1971 and Lewis has been busy writing a memo to wake up the people who lobby for American businesses, the US Chamber of Commerce. - And yes, we printed it because we're printing things today, okay? I'm in the mood for a good print. In his memo, Lewis Powell says that capitalism is being attacked and that this is an attack on quote, "individual freedom." He urges corporations to "use political power," "aggressively and with determination." He recommends assembling "a highly competent staff of lawyers" to address this threat by "engaging the Supreme Court." Okay, wait, but Powell's memo does not say anything about elections, or money in politics, or campaign finance, but it gets around, here in Washington and it catches someone's eye. The president, Richard Nixon. (crowd applauds) He's about to run for his second term, and he agrees with Lewis Powell's assessment and actually gets him appointed to the Supreme Court. So now Lewis Powell's on the Supreme Court. That's important. And then a few months after that, Nixon, who's running for president again, gets in a little bit of trouble. - [Reporter] The burglars broke through a fire escape door that led to the committee's offices. - It's June, 1972 and five men are caught breaking into the Watergate Hotel, which is home to the Democratic Party's headquarters. Seems sketchy. So Nixon goes on to win his reelection. He's the president again. But soon after, it is discovered that this break-in in the Watergate Hotel was actually directed by Nixon's people and was part of a larger operation to plant listening devices and spy on their political enemies during the election. And that their operation had been financed by a system of illegal campaign contributions, including tons of money from big corporations, which was totally illegal and had been since 1907. - Every major corporation was being hit up by the Nixon campaign for at least a hundred thousand dollars. American Airlines had to send the money through a bank in Lebanon to hide it. You know, we had had people getting cash in paper bags. - Johnald, what do you think about that? - Oh, it actually hurts, how do people do this? This was a great era for me. Me and my friends were able to donate millions of dollars to the Nixon campaign and we weren't required to report any of it. It's kinda like my dream. And in return, Nixon's people offered us things like special treatment in new laws. But now, everyone's freaking out about this Watergate scandal that's all over the news. The party might be over for me. - Yeah, things are changing. Public trust in government is plummeting. President Nixon resigns because he is about to be kicked out. And Congress, who has to put all of the pieces back together is realizing that all of these shenanigans were made possible by quote, "An excess of campaign donations. Many of them secret and illicitly obtained." - In the aftermath of Watergate, it turned out it was not just the Nixon campaign, that there was lots of already illegal money flowing through election. - The laws around this stuff were too lax or not being enforced. So Congress creates a new agency, the Federal Election Commission or FEC, and its job is to enforce campaign finance laws. So corporations are back in political jail, they cannot spend money in elections at all. But Congress doesn't stop there, they go further. They want to quote, "End the corrosive and corrupting influence of private money in public life." So they decide to make a bunch of new rules. - Hmm, this is not looking good. - Here in the United States, if you wanna support a politician while they're running for office, you can give them money. You know, those like donate buttons that you see on political websites? This is one pipe, let's say, of political money that can flow from you, an individual person contributing, or giving, to a candidate. Okay? Give. Give money. But there are other kinds of pipes in this system. Like look at this one. A candidate who got money from you can then spend that money they can spend it on ads, or phone calls, or mailings, or events, that's another kind of pipe. An individual citizen can also give money to a political party. And a political party can do different things with that money. They can give money to a candidate or they can spend money directly on those campaign activities that we talked about. So that's basically how money can be used to influence elections. - Hold on, there's one pipe you're forgetting. - What? - Someone like me who has a lot of money to burn and just spend money of my own on advertising to support someone. So make sure that that pipe stays on the graphic, it's really important. - Yes, you can do that too, Johnald. But yeah, this is our basic framework for what the campaign finance ecosystem looks like. At least this is what it looked like in the 1970s when Congress was reforming it. Just take it in for a second. Money flowing from private individuals to candidates or parties towards campaign activities like ads and stuff. So here's what Congress does in the '70s after everyone's freaking out about the Watergate scandal. First they decide to make all of these pipes transparent. Ooh, look, we can see the money flowing. Every transaction is now made public in paperwork like we've seen here. The FEC will publish this to all of us so we can scrutinize it. And by the way, that transparency thing is still true today. That's the reason why we're able to do the RBG PAC thing. Okay, but here's the big thing that they did, the big thing that Donald's gonna freaking hate, which is that they made all of these pipes super narrow. Like, they limited how much money you the individual can spend on a candidate or a party. Even if you're super rich, you have the same limit as every other person in the system. And that limit isn't very much. It was a thousand bucks back in the '70s. It's more like $7,000 today. Okay, wait, but how was Elon Musk able to spend $300 million on the election then? Don't worry, we'll get there. But for now, just take it in. This is our new campaign finance system. Johnald, what do you think? - Yeah, party's over, as expected. I want to give a lot of my money to my favorite candidate or make political parties like me by donating to them. But now all these narrow pipes make it really hard for me to give any more money than the next regular Joe. I also hate that they're all transparent. I really want to be able to anonymously wield my influence. Fortunately, I'm not the only one who's mad about this. Lots of my rich business friends are pissed. What Congress just did is effectively censor my ability to express my views by spending my own money to support a candidate. I'm starting to think that this is a matter of free speech. - If you limit spending, if you tell people you can't spend money to publish your thoughts, you can't spend money to advertise any place, that clearly has strong First Amendment implications. - So me and my friends are gonna fund a group. - It took political and financial patrons to supply the resources necessary for this litigation campaign. - Free speech advocates and lawmakers, both liberals and conservatives, by the way. And this includes my buddy James, James Buckley, he's a senator and we're gonna sue the government. - So wait, a lawmaker is suing the government? That's right, here in America, if you don't like a law, you can sue the government and if it gets overturned by the courts, you can change the law. And that's what's happening here. And this legal fight escalates all the way to the Supreme Court. - Ah, look who's back in the story, Lewis Powell, my old friend. He now sits on the highest court of the land, the Supreme Court. And remember, he's the one who wrote that manifesto. I, I mean, memo about American businesses needing to fight more aggressively to influence politics. - Well, Lewis Powell isn't alone. Other judges on the court share his ideas and are pretty at odds with Congress creating this system with all of its limits on how much a person can give to an election campaign. So they tried this case, and after hearing the case, the court decides something that will change everything. They say that the giving pipes, all of these over here are different than the spending pipes and should be regulated in a different way. Remember, giving is like a person giving to a candidate, or a person giving to a party, or a party giving to a candidate. And spending is like a candidate or a political party spending on ads and stuff in an election. The Supreme Court says that the government is justified in regulating giving for a very particular reason. - Buckley recognized only one justification for regulating money in politics. That is this idea of preventing corruption or the appearance of corruption. - Corruption, I mean, it's pretty easy to see how this works. You give $100 thousand to your favorite politician to support their campaign, now they kind of owe you a favor. This is quid pro quo, we call it. Sort of the most basic form of corruption. And the Supreme Court says, it's okay to regulate the giving pipes because we don't want rich people to buy favors from their politicians. And they say this is why giving is different than spending. The spending pipes are not something that can lead to corruption. If you spend money on ads, it doesn't mean that a politician owes you favors says the Supreme Court in the '70s. Okay, mm, let's keep an eye on that. Okay, one last thing from this Supreme Court decision, which is that they go even further and say that political spending like on ads and stuff, isn't just spending, it's actually a basic right? - The court said, essentially you're regulating speech. You're telling people how much they can speak. - Which we do not do in America. I mean, like, ideally. But yeah, this is a big deal because the high court of the land has just said here in the 1970s, the government can restrict a person giving money to a politician because that could lead to corruption. But spending on a campaign, that's free speech, baby. - I love this idea. I love that the Supreme Court is doing this. Free speech! It's in the Constitution! - The Constitution does not mention campaign finance. The idea that campaign spending is political speech, and that regulating money in politics amounts to censorship, were quite novel arguments, novel legal theories when they were first introduced in the 1970s. - Okay, but it's a good legal theory. - The problem with people saying, you know, we don't want money in politics at all, is that again, it costs money to communicate with people, right? If we were not allowed to learn anything about candidates, and you just showed up at the polls and there's a bunch of names there, is that really a democracy just because you vote? The speech is a crucial part of that democratic process. - So today, a lot of this framework is the same, at least for the giving pipes, they're still super narrow. This is why you can only give seven grand to a candidate. But Musk gave 300 million, I'm getting there. What's changed is these spending pipes, which are now as large as you want them to be, unlimited money can flow through these. Let's see what Johnald thinks. - Hold on, I'm gonna get it this time. - Actually, before we hear from Johnald, I just need to say that one of the major ways that people like Johnald influence our society with their money is not just donating to campaigns, it's also by buying media channels. Like right now, billionaires own most of the social media and the traditional media that we get our information from, which is why we've been building Newpress, an algorithm-free corner of the internet where you, the audience can participate in the journalism and where we reimagine what journalism can be. So if you wanna help us build this and influence what it looks like, go to newpress.com. You can sign up for free, and together we can reimagine how journalism is done. Okay, let's let Johnald have his words. - What's that? Oh wow, that's, this is looking a lot better. I still can't give unlimited amounts of money to a candidate, or a party, or a specific campaign, but I could theoretically spend unlimited amounts of money to promote a candidate myself. The problem is, I'm not really a campaign guy. Like, I don't know how to make advertisements so I wouldn't really know where to start. - A wealthy individual could spend his own money on a campaign, but you know, you didn't know how to do that. You made your money in engineering, or computer tech, or manufacturing, or something like that. - And another little snag here, even though I can spend unlimited money on my own efforts to support my favorite candidate, these big fat pipes are still transparent. I have to disclose it so people know, which I don't love. - Every ad would say, paid for by, and give the person's name. People didn't want to do that. - So yeah, theoretically I could spend a bunch of money and become like a campaign advertiser, but I'm still not gonna go nuts here, yet. We'll find a way. - Okay, so we're about to jump ahead a few decades, from the '70s to the 2000s. But first we just gotta spend a little bit of time talking about these weird political ads in the '90s. - It all comes down to values, what you believe in, what you sacrifice for, and what you stand for. - So this is a campaign ad, right? No, notice that it didn't say who to vote for or who not to vote for. It doesn't say the "magic words." - This is not a campaign ad. It's an ad about an issue that mentions a candidate, but never includes the magic words of, vote for, vote against. - The magic words make all the difference here. This is a loophole. It essentially allows political parties to raise unlimited money- - From people like me. Nice, I love the '90s. - And spend that money on these types of ads that are barely not political ads, that are political ads, but they're technically not because they don't say the magic words. And guess who wants in on the party? Corporations, they've been barred from all of this for decades, but now they have a big fat pipe to spend their money through. But not so fast, that pipe, even though it's big and it's unlimited, it's still transparent. So people will know that the money comes from corporations. "No problem," say the corporations. "What if we set up a middleman corporation and call it some generic name and no one will know it's us?" So this ad, for example, says that it was paid for by, "Citizens for Better Medicare." But actually, it was paid for by pharmaceutical companies using all these loopholes. - Wait, what was that, a middleman group? Hmm, that seems interesting, let's put a pin in that one. Damn it. - So by the end of the 1990s, we're back to the shenanigans again. There's nearly unlimited money flooding into politics through these loopholes. Corporations are doing political ads and once again, Congress, who by the way kind of benefits from this, but like some people in Congress are brave enough to stand up and be like, this is messed up. We should not have unlimited private money in politics. That's not like a healthy democracy, we should change it. So it's 2002 and these two lawmakers reach across the aisle and make a new law to clean this up. Loophole closed, loophole closed, loophole closed. Congress is cleaning up shop thanks to these two and unlimited money in politics has been solved. Ah, but here come the lawsuits. So it's 2007, election season is in full swing. Everyone thinks Hillary Clinton is gonna be president, but she's not, and there's this nonprofit corporation called Citizens United. And they don't like Hillary Clinton. And they also don't like these new laws that close the loophole that allowed people and corporations to spend unlimited money on ads without the magic words. So they intentionally break this law and they do it in the form of an anti-Hillary Clinton documentary. - She'll make up any story, lie about anything. - Hillary's got an agenda. - She wants to take over the healthcare system. - And the documentary never says the magic words of like, don't vote for Hillary. It's just like those ads from the '90s, but it's like an hour and a half long and it's technically illegal. And Citizens United sues the government for making this illegal. They say that this new law is way too broad and oppressive to their rights of speech, and they hope that this case escalates to the Supreme Court, which it does. - Ah, back to the Supreme Court. Lewis Powell, my old friend isn't around anymore because it's now 2007, but I haven't lost hope because the court is made up of a majority of justices who are kind of like Powell's spiritual descendants. They believe like Powell did, that spending money on a campaign is speech and therefore cannot be limited by the government. - That's exactly what the court said. They said that this law that prohibits this documentary from being on TV is actually government censorship. - The court said, this law is unconstitutional. - And that you should be able to spend as much money as you want expressing your views. And in fact, it's also a violation of free speech for there to be any restriction on any political spending by any group, including wait for it, corporations. - A blockbuster decision from the Supreme Court today. - A landmark decision on campaign finance. - [Reporter] By a five to four vote, the sharply divided justices... - ...rules that corporations can contribute anything. - This is historically unprecedented. - So this is 2010 when this ruling comes out. And it's a big deal, because this decision goes even further than the Supreme Court case in the '70s that said that money can be like speech. In this case, the Supreme Court is explicitly saying that corporations and unions have the same free speech rights to spend money in elections as private individuals. - Last week, the Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates... - ...for companies and unions to spend all the money they want attacking political candidates. - Insurance industry, drug companies, Wall Street, big unions... - In short, there are now no checks on the ability of corporations, or unions, or other giant aggregations of power to decide our elections. - I remember this time, and I remember thinking so clearly, like, corporations like ExxonMobil are gonna spend unlimited money and buy our politicians, which is I think what a lot of people thought back then. But in reporting this video, I discovered that we were kind of wrong about that. - People thought that Citizens United would unleash a torrent of corporate money in elections, that hasn't happened. - So what does this mean for our ecosystem of pipes and stuff? Like, Johnald is looking at this and not sure what to think. He's not a corporation, he's an individual. So what does this mean for him? Johnald? Let me explain. For almost 100 years, there's actually been another player in this system, Pacman, I mean, sorry, Political Action Committees or PACs. PACs are like middleman organizations for fundraising. They collect money and they spend it on elections and they can spend as much as they want on elections, but they've got narrow pipes on giving to a candidate. And the reason why this doesn't go off the rails is because the giving pipe from an individual to a PAC is narrow. So they have limits on how much they can collect from people. So in this new time after Citizens United, people start to wonder, what if a PAC-like thing would never give any money to a candidate itself but only focused on spending money? The Supreme Court says that spending money is free speech. We can buy ads, do polling, do opposition research, big data gathering. What if we never give it to a candidate? So now the big question is, is there a limit on this pipe, on how much an individual can give to these groups? And the answer comes soon after Citizens United when a lower court, based on the precedent of Citizens United, rules that no, you cannot put a limit on this pipe as long as this PAC doesn't collaborate and coordinate with a candidate or campaign. The court says that there's no risk for corruption here and therefore a person can give as much as they want. This is called a Super PAC and it changes everything. - Let's go, this is amazing. Do you see how fat those pipes are? This is like the fulfillment of my dream. I can now give unlimited money to one of these Super PACs and they can spend unlimited money to support my candidate. Okay, wait, what's that? Disclosures, hmm. Super PAC ads have to disclose the name of the Super PAC who paid for it, and Super PACs themselves still have to disclose their donors, which would be me, ugh. Wait, middlemen, remember? I can just create a non-profit corporation whose sole purpose is to move my money from me to the Super PAC. I can give unlimited money to that nonprofit, which thanks to those court cases, can now give unlimited money to the PAC who can spend unlimited money on campaign activities. And look what it does, it finally gives me the opaque pipe, the thing I've been dreaming of for years. So watch this, I'm gonna give $10 million to my middleman organization, which I'm calling Better America, something totally vague. And my middleman organization will give that $10 million to a super PAC who then spends unlimited on ads and campaigning for my favorite candidate. And yes, these transactions have to be disclosed, but all anyone ever sees on the paperwork is "$10 million from Better America." My name is nowhere. And this is all totally above board. As long as the super PAC and the official campaign don't coordinate with each other, I can funnel as much money as I want into elections this way and no one will know it's me. - Congratulations, Johnald, you finally got your dream. Here is the amount of money spent by organizations like Super PACs in the first presidential election after Citizens United. I mean, it totally explodes. And it only goes up from there. Some of these super PACs are Democratic aligned, some are Republican aligned, it's a mix. So back to my 2010 questions, are corporations like Walmart and ExxonMobil giving to these Super PACs? Kind of. Here are the top corporations who gave money to Super PACs in 2024. A lot of this is coming from like crypto companies. - If we wanna talk about direct campaign expenditures, those large corporations aren't that interested in it. - In 2024, corporations gave around $460 million. But actually, that's not who's mostly funding these organizations. Really, you gotta look over here, at the top individual donors to Super PACs, it's way more. In fact, these two guys, Elon Musk and Timothy Mellon, just these two together gave more in 2024 than every corporation combined. So yes, corporations got involved in this, but... - The big players in electoral politics, who gets elected and like sort of who supports that, billionaires like me and my friends, we are a real force in politics now. - Okay, so I now understand this graph, why there's so much more money in politics here than in other countries. And much to Johnald's chagrin, we actually do know who is spending a lot of this money. And that's because there's something else going on here. Remember I said earlier that the Johnalds of the world can't just buy an election? These rich people don't go anonymous even though they could because they want people to know that they donated and they may want something in return. I'll let Johnald explain this one. - One thing I've learned from my friends is that since this Citizens United case, political campaigns are some of the best investments you can make. Like, take my friends Liz and Dick, they own a box company and they're super rich. Who knew that boxes could be such a lucrative industry. Anyway, they use their vast fortune to influence politics and I really admire them. Look what they did during the 2016 election. They gave around $8 million to Super PACs and they focused their donations towards supporting one senator who was running for reelection. So he wins, and a year later, this senator single handedly gets a new rule slipped into the tax law, right before it gets passed. And a year after that, this new law helped Liz and Dick save more than $40 million on their taxes. So that was $8 million invested in Super PACs to support this candidate and $40 million of savings. That's a nice return, not bad guys. And in 2024, Liz and Dick are at it again. They gave over $100 million to various Super PACs. Not sure what they're getting in return yet, but I hope it's something good. - Then you get donors who get special rewards from the politicians they help elect. Joe Biden did a lot of this actually, even though while he was campaigning, he said that quote, "Nobody would be appointed based on anything they contributed." But if you look at Biden's ambassadors, a bunch of them were his donors, like his ambassador to Switzerland and Lichtenstein. This investment banker who gave over $3 million to various Democratic committees, despite the fact that like nothing in the public record shows that he knows German or French. This is the same story with the ambassador to Iceland, who's this attorney who gave $2 million to Democratic groups, the ambassador to Malta, to Canada. You get it. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. That stuff's been done for generations. Like, that's like classic spoils stuff, give a lot of money, get a cushy job. But honestly, investment bankers, attorneys, executives, these guys are like millionaires. No offense guys, but that's not me. I'm playing a much bigger ball game. I don't want some like cushy job in Greece for four years. I wanna influence the rules of our system. I wanna influence what policy actually makes it into our society. That's the game I'm playing, not ambassador to Lichtenstein. - Okay, and now I wanna kind of walk back how much I've emphasized that you can't like buy an election. You, with a lot of money, can affect elections themselves. And there are some pretty nuts examples of this. Like for example... - Oh hey, sorry, can I, can I do this one? I know I've been talking a lot, but I'm just like, I'm so excited about what's happening right now. - Yeah, sure, go ahead. - I've been waiting this whole time to talk about my boy Pete, Peter Thiel. He's the co-founder of PayPal. And yes, sometimes he says some really weird shit. - Christ was the first political atheist. Crypto's libertarian, can we also say that AI's communist? - You would prefer the human race to endure, right? - Uh... - Okay, that's enough. The story I wanted to tell is what happened in 2021 when two former employees of Pete's venture capital funds were running for US Senate. And honestly it wasn't looking good for these guys. They were polling at like 1%. But then Pete swooped in and gave $10 million to Super PACs who were supporting them. This blew their competitors' fundraising out of the water overnight. And suddenly, thanks to my friend Pete, these guys are on the map. They're in the race, Donald Trump endorses them. One of them ends up losing in the general election, but the other goes on to win and now he's our vice president. - [Crowd] JD, JD, JD, JD, JD, JD. - Vice President J. D. Vance is actually pretty vocal on some of Peter Thiel pet issues like crypto, which Thiel is a vocal investor in. - With President Trump, crypto finally has a champion and an ally in the White House. (crowd cheers) - Thiel also feels strongly that the government shouldn't regulate AI. - We believe that excessive regulation of the AI sector could kill a transformative industry just as it's taking off. - None of this is damning on its own, like it's not smoking gun evidence of quid pro quo corruption. But it's easy to imagine that Thiel has Vance's ear because he bankrolled his path to power. And the reality is, a lot of this buying influence, or elections, or benefiting personally is sometimes just about shaping the government's agenda, shaping what it focuses on, what it cares about, so that it aligns with what you want them to do. The most visible example is the one we just saw. Elon Musk set this record. He spent almost $300 million on the 2024 election, pledging a ton of support to get Trump elected. And he was pretty instantly rewarded with a level of access to the government like almost no one else before him. - The brand new Department of Government Efficiency, DOGE, which is headed by Elon Musk. - Elon Musk and his department of Government efficiency have promised to take a wrecking ball to the federal government. - Elon Musk's team now has access to the Treasury Department's payment system, essentially the government's checkbook. - So I feel like it's important that we revisit the Supreme Court for a second and examine a little bit of their logic. They said that they were worried about, give money to politician, they owe you a favor and that is why it is okay to limit how much you can give to a politician or a party. But the Supreme Court has said now several times that if you spend money independently, not giving it to a candidate or coordinating with a campaign that actually that's not corruption, that you wouldn't be buying favors from your politician that you supported. And I believe that they were wrong to assert that it doesn't have some influence on the mind of the politician who you supported. Yes, you didn't give them a bag of cash. Yes, you didn't give them money directly, but if you spent millions of dollars to help get them elected, they owe you a favor, right? The Supreme Court doesn't agree with me, at least the one in the '70s and in 2010, but what I observe in our system is the opposite. There's this wonky study that looked at thousands of policy proposals over two decades, and they found that average citizens have quote, "Little to no influence on the decisions our elected officials make." They do say that regular people quote, "Often get the policies they favor, but only because those policies also happen to be preferred by economically elite citizens who wield the actual influence." And they said that their study probably quote, "Underestimated the impact of economic elites on policymaking." Yeah, not great. - A democracy that allows people to translate their vastly unequal economic power into vastly unequal political power is a democracy that doesn't take equality seriously. - Okay, okay, calm down. Yes, you could call this system corrupt. Everybody basically knows it, but it's legal. Like, this is all above board. The Supreme Court has spoken, this is what our system has produced and it has allowed me, people like me to be able to express my views, my speech in a very powerful way. It's exactly what I wanted. But if there's one thing I've learned from going through the ups and downs of the last 50 years, it's that these things can change. It just takes one law from Congress to stop the party. And there's one thing that gets me really nervous, which is this chart, that shows that 72% of Americans agree that this unlimited spending thing that we do now is not okay. 72% of Americans don't agree on anything, and it freaks me out even more that when you split it by party, people feel the same way on both sides. If people start to realize that it's 72% vs 11%, the way that the chart says, that's not good for me. So, there's two things I do hope for. Number one, I hope that all of you keep fighting over stupid stuff. Don't pay attention to the way that we run your elections. And two, I hope you find this whole thing super boring. I mean, all the jargon, right? It should make your eyes glaze over. I hope you don't send this to friends and start to talk about it more. Think about how it can change. I hope you don't care, because that is how I continue to win.