Let's talk about Trump's NSPM7 labels. They are labeling common beliefs as terrorism indicators. New Order targets anti-Christian, anti-American, and anti- capitalism opinions. With the mainstream media distracted for the made for TV drama of James Comey's indictment, Trump has signed a little notice national security directive identifying anti-Christian and anti-American views as indicators of radical left violence called the National Security Presidential Memorandum 7. It's being referred to as NSPM7 by administration insiders. This is the first time in American history that there is an allout government effort to dismantle left-wing terrorism, Trump's Homeland Security adviser, Steven Miller, said, referring to the issuance. To the extent that the major media noticed the directive at all, they even C-SPAN incorrectly labeled it an executive order, like this week's designation of Antifa as a domestic terrorist organization. It's hard to overstate how much different NSPM7 is from the over 200 orders Trump has frantically signed since coming back into office. An executive order publicly lays out the course of day-to-day federal government operations, whereas a national security directive is a sweeping policy decree for the defense, foreign policy, intelligence, and law enforcement apparatus. National security directives are often secret, but in this case, the Trump administration chose to publish NSPM7, only the seventh since he's come into office. Previous national security directives have been controversial, even politically earth shaking. In 1980, for example, President Jimmy Carter signed the top secret Presidential Directive 59, directing the new nuclear warfighting policies that persisted until the end of the Cold War. When revealed, PD59 caused a public furer. Similarly, President George W. Bush signed a series of classified national security directives after 9/11. The most famous of which authorized NSA's unlawful domestic intercepts, a directive that wasn't publicly revealed until four years later. In NSPM7, Countering Domestic Terrorism and Organized Political Violence, President Trump directs the Justice Department, the FBI, and other national security agencies and departments to fight his version of political violence in America, retooling a network of joint terrorism task forces to focus on leftist political violence in America. This vast counterterrorism army made up of federal, state, and local agents, as Trump aid Steven Miller said, form a central the central hub of that effort. The thing is, I don't think liberals are even remotely aware of what this is. Or at most they think that it's just about, you know, radical leftists or something. You know, people that they also don't really like, people that they see as like spoilers to Kla Harris, even people like myself. This is a way to utilize all of the intelligence community's powers to actively target and prosecute, investigate, and potentially apprehend anyone and everyone that has exhibited a anti-racist thought, declaring them enemies of the state. This is also directly antagonistic to the first amendment. This is a significant attempt to outwardly [ __ ] the First Amendment. Okay. NSPM7 directs a new national strategy to disrupt any individual or groups that ferment political violence, including before they result in violent political acts. In other words, they're targeting pre-Rime to reference minority report. The Trump administration isn't only targeting organizations or groups, but even individuals and entities whom NSPM7 says can be identified by any of the following indica indicators of violence. Anti-Americanism, anti- capitalism, anti-Christianity, support for the overthrow of the United States government. Extremism on migration, as in people who say anti-immigrant sentiments are born out of racism. extremism on race as in to say that black people should not be disproportionately targeted by the police because remember this is the frontfacing most marketable positions that they can put out there. Do you understand? It will extend to anyone and everyone that is a liberal, that is someone who is maybe even not a liberal, but goes, "I don't think racism is good." This extends to every single person in the United States of America at any given moment. Extremism on gender. What could that be? Hostility towards those who hold traditional American views on family. Hostility towards those who hold traditional views on religion. and hostility towards those who hold traditional American views on morality. These are intentionally vague, but if you look at the combination of what they're singling out, this ranges everywhere from people like myself, people like ourselves in this community, all the way down to your parents that were lifelong Republican voters who might have switched at some point to vote for Kla Harris or to vote for Joe Biden. Do you understand? The United States requires a national strategy to investigate and disrupt networks, entities, and organizations that ferment political violence so that law enforcement can intervene in criminal conspiracies before they result in violent political acts. The directive states, "A pre-rime endeavor, preventing attacks before they happen, is core to the post 911 concept of counterterrorism itself. No longer satisfied to investigate acts of terrorism after the fact to bring terrorists to justice, the Bush administration adopted preeemption. And for a lot of people who were oblivious to what they were doing at the time, this simply meant roundthe-clock 24/7 surveillance in Muslim neighborhoods trying to find the FBI used to do this all the time. Trying to find people who are like, you know, who have like intellectual disabilities and whatnot to try to go them into doing something to try to radicalize them then go them into doing something and then stopping it ahead of time to basically say, "Look, we did it." Many such cases took place on US soil. This happened quite a bit. This happened a lot. The FBI used to do this all the time. They would go after like some autistic teenager who's Muslim online and they'd be like, "Ooh, you should get some tenerite at this drop site that we left for you." And then they would apprehend the person and be like, "This guy's a terrorist. We we apprehended an Islamic terrorist overseas. That led to aerial assassination by drones and special operations kill missions." Domestically, it led to a counterterrorism campaign whose hallmark was excessive and illegal government surveillance and use of undercover agents and confidential human sources to trap and in trap would be terrorists. You don't actually have to do anything wrong for the federal government to try to present an argument because in this circumstance it's more so about building a narrative. So I think what they're doing, just like McCarthyism, just like post 911 Islamophobia, what they are trying to create here is an intelligence communitybacked effort to create a narrative of left-wing terror. So what they're going to be going after here is goating people into Fed posting, as we like to call it, and then trying to apprehend people for engaging in acts of fed posting to create a narrative or maybe even let a couple of these uh incidents go. coers people, intimidate people into taking action and then letting a couple of them go and then say, "You see, this is a real dangerous, this is a real violent and dangerous endeavor. We must react because right now, I mean, if this is a fully competent administration, which it's not, but right now there isn't a lot of appetite for this kind of thing. There isn't a lot of appetite for this kind of like mass apprehension, right? But the goal is to manufacture some kind of consent for the federal government to start apprehending and arresting anyone and everyone that has remotely demonstrated empathy at any point. This tactic sounds familiar if you are aware of how America's allies have worked or puppet states, dictatorships, fascist forms of governance all around the world that we've aligned with, we have done this everywhere else. It's called the Jakarta method for a reason. It was first implemented in Jakarta. Now we are turning that same scrutiny and same principled authoritarian fascist technique to the domestic front. Fascism is colonialism turned inward and this is fascism. This is imperialism and colonialism turned inward. This is happening at the domestic level. Now, there is a reason why the terrorism designation, albeit vague, has only been utilized for foreign actors in the United States of America. No matter how many actual designated acts of domestic terror a group participates in or commits, whether it be Atamwa or the Patriot Front, numerous other right-wing organizations, there is no internal mechanism for identifying domestic terrorism and prosecuting domestic terrorism at the point of organizing. This has not happened with the KKK either. The reason why it has not happened with the KKK or any of these groups is because of the First Amendment. The second reason why it's never happened with right-wing groups, of course, is because they are not considered too disruptive to the pre-existing hierarchies that the American government has consistently defended. This has however happened to the Black Panther Party and numerous other black revolutionary groups during the civil rights struggle. This is precisely what they did with the Black Panther Party and numerous other organizations. They did it. They disrupted it. They infiltrated these groups. They assassinated its leaders. And I suspect that that's what they're trying to do now. However, even with the Black Panther Party and numerous other black liberation organizations, there was still ultimately a foreign actor that they could associate this movement with. At the time, it was the USSR. This was during the cold war still. So they could still associate with the USSR. There still was a lot of racial animosity way more so than there than exists now. There is racial animosity in this country. White supremacy has not gone away. This is an inherent contradiction that Americans have never addressed. Okay. Adequately. Having said that, however, the racial tensions in this country at this stage are nowhere near where they were during the civil rights struggle. The reason why I'm bringing this up is because I do not suspect there is enough appetite from the broader uh base of support or even just like the broader base of Americans to allow the government to intercept, infiltrate and engage in this kind of uh ridiculous prosecution for for any kind of anti-racist organizing. For example, on the one hand, I don't think liberals are aware of what's coming next. And I keep repeating this over and over again. I I talk about how dangerous this is, how worrisome this is, and how unamerican this is, even though it has happened throughout different periods of American history in our darkest chapters. But also, on the other hand, I think once it kicks into high gear, more Americans, more and more Americans will start getting frustrated. Now with Donald Trump's directive retooling the counterterror apparatus to go after Americans at home, this means monitoring political activity or speech as an investigative method to discover radicalism. Contrary to other national security documents all during the postwatergate era, NSPM7 doesn't even mention the First Amendment or the fundamental right of Americans to organize and protest. The focus on speech is evident throughout NSPM7. The directive says that political violence is the result of organized campaigns that often begin with the left dehumanizing targets in anonymous chaff for in-person meetings, social media, and even educational institutions. Remember, even in college, okay, even in a classroom. To give a sense of how broad this formulation is, Trump's earlier designation of Antifa as a domestic terrorist group was accompanied by a White House fact sheet singling out people who celebrated Luigi Manion. the alleged killer of United Healthcare CEO Brian Thompson last December. As I wrote at the time, this describes a lot of Americans. This is not a political singling out of of radical potential terrorism or something. Okay? This is straightforwardly prosecuting whoever they want to prosecute. Like this is trying to create an environment where there is just cause to go after whoever the they want. This is so overencompassing and so broad that it's not just people like myself. It's just this means Trump voters even, you know what I mean? This is anyone and everyone. Trump's new national security memorandum also alludes to Manion, but adds to it even larger categories of potential targets. NSPM7 is a fundamentally a law enforcement directive and it dispenses with the complications of using the active duty military or the National Guard in pursuit of political violence. It directs the Department of Justice to focus the FBI's approximately 200 joint terrorism task forces to the new mission. The FBI network of task forces comprises over 4,000 members, including FBI personnel, and task force officers from more than 500 state and local agencies and 50 federal agencies, including special agents, police officers, intelligence analysts, and surveillance technicians. First established in New York City in 1980 to systematize FBI and NYPD cooperation. Today, there are task forces around the country, including at least one in each of the FBI's 55 field offices. For the Trump White House, the beauty of using an already existing network is that it bypasses congressional oversight and scrutiny and even obscures federal activity to governors and legislators at the state level. States, cities, and local police have already signed memoranda of agreements with the feds to fight terrorism, and officers are already assigned as task force officers. NSPM7 says that the JTFs shall investigate potential federal crimes relating to acts of recruiting or radicalizing persons for the purpose of political violence, terrorism, or conspiracy against rights, and the violent deprivation of any citizens rights. These last two parts here are also intentionally vague to be as as broad and as over-encompassing as possible. Okay? Because some of this stuff like radicalizing people for the purpose of political violence directly intervenes with the first amendment because you can say that about anyone, right? You can say that about anyone and everyone. You're cook. know I mean yeah this is basically written as a way to apprehend and single me out as like a domestic terrorist but it's written in such a way that it also extends to literally David Pac-Man even you know what I mean it's written a way that this could mean anyone from people like myself all the way to like the pod John's it's not just people like myself it's not like Jason and Ru or whatever it straight up implies the way this is written it straight up implies that if you're like a part for the Satan church, for example, and and you know, you're doing like a like a fundraiser or a back to school drive or something, you are potentially liable here. You can be prosecuted. You can be investigated. Philip DeFranco, like every single person, every single person that has ever conveyed any sort of like anti-racist statement is liable for an investigation or a prosecution. There's a gender indication there that means that if you're gay or trans, again, you could be pegged as an extremist. If you're black or brown and you have exhibited anti-racist tendencies, or if you have participated in any sort of like anti-white supremacist action, anti-ICE protests, extremism on migration. That's what this means. I know a lot of you are laughing at me saying you could be pegged and going, "Lol, peg gay and trans. Lol. Don't peg the gays and trans." But like you're you're not understanding the the severity of this crisis. Once again, this is an attempt to criminalize any sort of nonRepublican viewpoint. I don't even want to say leftist viewpoint here. Okay? I don't even want to say non-Republican viewpoint here because like this even could potentially criminalize Republican viewpoints as well. As long as they are a Republican that says, "Yeah, I also think ISIS up. You are now a target. You can be designated as a rhino. The attorney general shall issue specific guidance that ensures domestic terrorism priorities include politically motivated terrorist attacks such as organized doxing campaigns, swatting, rioting, looting, trespass, assault, destruction of property, threats of violence, and civil disorder. The NSPM7 says civil disorder. I don't want to sound hyperbolic, but the plain truth is that the NSPM7 is a declaration of war on anyone who does not support the Trump administration and its agenda. Yes, it repeats the word violent over and over to purport only to go after citizens who are moved to take up arms, but it also directs monitoring and intelligence collection to map and target new evildoers to borrow a Bush label he took from the Bible just that days after 9/11. The partisan focus couldn't be more obvious. The real problem is this. Since Charlie Kirk was murdered, a friend of mine assassinated, nothing changed on their side. White House counterterrorism Zar Sebastian Gora told Newsmax after NSPM7 was signed. Not one leader, not one leftist thought leader, member of Congress, Senator. Nobody has said we distanced ourselves from the violent rhetoric. The left refuses to rid themselves of the justification for violence, Gorka continued. And as such, President Trump is taking measures to protect us from the violent rhetoric that becomes snipers and bullets. It's not violence that they are combating. It's rhetoric. It's not violence that they're combating. It's rhetoric. As in any sort of expression of discontent towards the Trump administration or any number of different actions that they take can be considered violent rhetoric. They are trying to tie you saying I don't like what ISIS is doing or ISIS Gestapo or this is Nazi to a a false claim that this means like you are opening up a floodgate of enforcement. They are trying to do this. is they already tried to do this with material support. They've been trying to do this with material support to terror organizations, trying to claim that speech is material support for terror organizations. And they're doing it now at the domestic level as well. For the record, as it stands currently in the United States of America, material support does not extend to language. Okay? It is not illegal in the United States of America to even say you support known designated terror organizations, foreign terror organizations. You can say you support it. It is up until this moment not been illegal. We are a nation where David Duke, the grand wizard of the Ku Klux Clan, ran for office. We are a nation where members of the American Nazi party run for office. While you might consider that to be extreme, and I certainly do, the reason for why this has been allowed is partially because of the First Amendment. Now, they're taking that away. Another aspect of this is again anti-Americanism. Remember, these are the hallmarks of terror. They say anti-Americanism. Now think, close your eyes for a brief moment and think. Who do the Republicans accuse of anti-Americanism? It's not just those who liberals consider to be radicals themselves. It's everyone. Okay? The entirety of the Democratic Party and its base of support. Who do the Republicans accuse of anti- capitalism? Nancy Pelosi is a communist in the eyes of the Republican party. Kla Harris is a socialist communist in the eyes of the Republican party. Anti-Christianity as well. This is designed to target any and every person on US soil that has ever looked at what Trump is doing and said, "I don't like this." Of course, another part of the story is the question, the obvious question, is there a difference between far-left extremism and far-right extremism? And the answer, of course, is yes. Now, I'm biased. I'm obviously biased. But think for a brief moment. We are build as far-left extremists. And as far-left extremists, we believe that everyone should have healthc care. We believe the interests of profits cannot go over the interests of the people. We believe that everyone should have more autonomy in the workplace. We believe that people should have free education all the way up to the college level no matter what their background looks like. We believe in a more tolerant approach to immigration instead of immediately deciding that things we don't understand are awful and scary and must be exised and destroying America. We believe that these populations are actually helpful to build this multifaceted diverse American culture. Is that the same as the exact opposite of this position to target people due to inalienable traits and characteristics and then punishing them and putting them in concentration camps and kicking them out of this country? I don't think so. Fantastic stuff. That is where we're at,