I know all of us have seen the videos of what is basically the execution of Alex Pretti. Um, I've seen it from more angles uh, and more times than I care to repeat. I'm not going to give an in-depth frame by frame analysis. Um, you don't need a lawyer to tell you what you can see with your own eyes, which is that it was um, an inexcusable state sanctioned murder. There is no excuse. Uh there is no justification. And it is the latest in what is probably a long line. This one happens to have been videotaped um thankfully uh by many uh brave bystanders. As you can tell, I'm I'm not in my studio. Um I was on a plane yesterday. Oh god, it's it's cold out here. It's uh 0 degrees, which is still 10 degrees warmer than it is in Minneapolis right now. But uh in some sense, I sort of I do this for a living. I analyze the videos that are out there and and think about things from legal perspective. And you know, I saw the first video when it came out. It was pretty clear, but you know, with any video taken from across the street, there's some ambiguity. And uh but I think the the second video came out. In the second video, you can hear that Alex Freddy's last words were, "Are you okay?" which when she said to the woman that was that was next to him who had been pushed down by the ICE or CBP officer who was acting unhinged where Alex pretty just has his phone out and his left arm is free. I think those were his last words and I think those words last acts was trying to help the woman that pu put pu was pushed down by the man in the uh in the green sweatshirt who I think eventually was the first first agent who shot him. And uh like I said, I'm I'm not going to go frame by frame, but to to my eyes, you know, the last thing that Alex Freddy did was to to help others. And look, my legal analysis doesn't change when the victim is, you know, a bank robber or a saint. Everyone deserves the same rights. And it it doesn't justify or justify less the actions of what happened, but it does he heighten the loss of what happened and the the people whose rights are being taken away and and their lives are are being taken away. So, look, uh, I'm going to try and gather some thoughts, which I'm only going to do because I think a lot of people are, you know, thinking the same thing. Whether you're a lawyer or a lay person, I think I think we're all absolutely enraged not only by, you know, the loss of Alex Prey, but Renee Good and everyone else who has been, you know, pushed aside. um and uh has been caught in in this web uh of what is clearly illegal action from our federal government. Like I said, it it doesn't change the legal analysis, but it does say something that Alex Prey and Renee Good before him seem to be the best the best of us. And there's a reason why they were gunned down. Um, it's because they put themselves out there and and by God that's commendable and we need to we need to continue sta to stand up because they did too. And look, you don't need to be a lawyer to know that their shootings were not justified. But I think we need to take a step back too to recognize that, you know, ICE and CBP shouldn't have been there in the first place. They have no right and no duty to do crowd control uh to be on the front lines using weapons uh against protesters. These people should not be armed. We've sort of grown and to it, but they are not enforcing criminal law even when they are enforcing immigration laws, which they are not right now. it is uh state sponsored um protest control of people exercising their first amendment rights. At best they are enforcing regulatory and civil laws and there's no reason they should have firearms in the first place. Uh they I don't even think should have less lethals like pepper balls and they shouldn't be using tear gas and and pepper spray and bear spray um on on protesters. That's insane. Um it would be as if we gave every uh postal worker and every person who delivers the mail um you know an AR-15. Uh they don't need it to complete their duties. And it's insane uh that they have been armed uh and are wearing flack jackets and um are obviously wearing masks to for no other reason than to obscure their identity and prevent accountability. Obviously, the shootings are unjustified, but the entire situation that recently Alex Petty unfortunately found himself in and the woman next to him, they should not have been pushed aside by these puditive federal officers for exercising their First Amendment rights. They should not have been restrained. They should not have been pepper- sprrayed while they were restrained. And of course, they should not have been shot and murdered while they were prone and restrained. None of that. the entire situation should not have happened. 3,000 ICE and CBP officers should not have been deployed to Minneapolis in the first place. I will echo um what some legal commentators have said. This is basically stoastic terrorism. If you send 3,000 untrained psychopaths with guns into a place where people are angry, um where they are not effectuating the law, you don't know who's going to die, but you know that people are going to die. And I think that President Trump and I think that Stephen Miller have blood on their hands because this is what they wanted. It's honestly incredible that the people of Minneapolis and Minnesota have shown as much restraint as they have and that they have not taken the bait and they have not responded to violence with violence. And that's incredible and it deserves accommodation. Not the least of which because they're not going to be the last. Um it's going to come to other cities, predominantly blue and majority democratic cities. Um because what ICE and CBP are doing is um a terror campaign. It is a pretext that they are effectuating anything related to immigration at this point. And also I will point out that there are a lot of people doing a lot of good. There are a lot of lawyers working overtime right after this happened. um lawyers who had already received a temporary restraining order saying that ICE could not employ unconstitutional methods um to restrain um and punish um all of the protesters um filed a emergency motion with the court of appeals to lift an administrative stay that was put in place which is a thing that often happens and it's insane that they they would need a TTRO in the first place to restrain um these people on mass from conducting unconstitutional um raids and unconstitutional methods methods. Um, but the declarations from people who were on the scene and saw um, Alex Prey shot with their own eyes, it's crazy that lawyers would respond within a few hours um, and get that in front of a judge. It's also um, there was some parallel litigation from the uh, Minnesota bureau uh, in charge of the investigation that was stymied by ICE, which is another thing for another day. Within a few hours, they had um a motion in front of a judge seeking a temporary restraining order to prevent ICE from destroying evidence because they already mucked up the crime scene. Um the declarations and affidavit from people in support of that are also incredible. And another incredible thing that is within two hours a Trumpointed judge granted the TTRO. And you know, these are not perfect mechanisms. It's something that in the past has helped to prevent ICE from destroying evidence, which I think they did uh in the case of Jonathan Ross when they uh took all of the stuff out of his house and and put it god knows where. It probably goes without saying, but um it's unfortunate and it's crazy that we cannot trust um we cannot trust federal officers in the first place, but we also cannot trust them to investigate. There are also things that Congress can and should do immediately. Obviously, they should not fund ICE um in in the future. U but that's the table stakes. Um we need to have uh serious curtailment of the immunity that exists. Federal officers do not have absolute immunity. Um but they do have strong immunity and it is incredibly difficult to sue the federal government um when you have had your constitutional rights deprived. Obviously, there's qualified immunity on a state level when state actors do that. It would be unbelievably easy for Congress to amend the current laws to provide a a right of action for people to be able to sue um to remove qualified immunity unnecessarily um and uh to to prevent all this stuff in the future because uh the current framework for immunity for people who commit um heinous crimes like these um I think it's untenable and it's disgusting. And then of course the people who are responsible for this at the very top need to be impeached. Uh this is an impeachable offense. Uh like I said, I truly believe that this is or some version of this is exactly what Donald Trump and Steven Miller wanted and and in some sense they have gotten what they wanted. Um and now it's time for them to be removed from office because they are absolutely unfit from top to bottom. It needs to be removed root and stem. And if you thought it couldn't get any more craven than it is, um within hours of Alex Pretti's shooting, Pam Bondi sent a letter to Governor Tim Walls um saying that if they would turn over voter information, then they would withdraw ICE from Minneapolis. Um, so if you want a confession that this was never about immigration and that on some level this is about winning the next election, uh, and that if you thought that these people couldn't get any more craven, uh, they can, uh, and they will and they did. Um, I just I I I'm flabbergasted from everything that's happened. The thing that that uh that I keep coming back to is how incredible the people who are resisting um are doing in the face of such adversity and how they are rising to the occasion. Um I believe Attorney General Bondi said that um this country was formed for respect for law enforcement. Uh I actually think that that could not be further from the truth. this country was formed um by resisting and rebelling against tyranny and that tradition um is is what I think people point to when they say that we engage in American activity um and we should continue to do so. I know people want to uh to do to do something and our options are limited. One thing that you can do that was recommended to me um by commentator Will Stansel who was on the ground in Minneapolis is to donate to the Lawyers Guild of Minnesota um the ACLU of Minnesota or Monarcha of uh Minnesota. They are on the ground providing legal relief to the people who have been caught up um in this terrible web um and um are helping out the people who have been victimized um by this reign of terror. So um I'll leave some links in the description for that. Yesterday was a a really really bad day, but there are uh some glimmers of hope and uh it shows that uh that they'll come for the best of us, but that that we can fight back.