Jiannis Varaf is in the building everybody. We're just gonna talk about the the Valve economy. Actually, that's why >> that's what you wanted out. >> That's why I brought you here. Yeah. To talk about to talk about G. >> Hello everyone. >> To talk about gaming of the Valve economy. >> Um >> he wants insider information. >> Yeah. Yeah. That's what I want to know cuz he he cooked the he cooked the CSGO knife market recently out of nowhere. >> I don't follow. I have to tell you that I don't follow. >> No, I'm kidding. I know. Well, they might not know because everyone is always shocked because they might know you as uh you know Marxist academic uh uh they they might know you from Progressive International, but they but a lot of people don't know that you uh you early on in uh very early on. >> Yeah, very early on. And you help with the Valve economy, right? >> Well, let me tell you, it's it's a nice story. By the way, I'm not going to divulge anything that Gabe wouldn't want me to. >> Okay? >> Because, you know, one has to stick to one's basic ethical rules. Uh, but there isn't that much to divulge anyway. But the story, I think, is quite interesting because, you know, I'm not a gamer. >> I mean, I I used to I'm still >> You're not a gamer. >> No, I'm not a gamer. I I I used to play Space Invaders when I was young, right? I mean, that that kind of uh antiquated stuff and a lot of pinball machines. I love pinball machines. Okay, >> that that's it. That's it really. So, you know, >> so you were there you were there when gaming was invented. >> I was there when gaming was invented and then I gave up when it became interactive and multiplayer and and more interesting. >> Yeah. >> Uh so around 2007208 with the great financial collapse I got seriously stuck into what's happening in the world of finance especially in my neck of the woods because my country became effectively ground zero. uh you know your country was the original ground zero with subprime market and all that but you know when that shock wave hit Greece >> we we're talking about carnage real carnage not the Donald Trump kind he's referring to >> anyway so you know I I wrote a lot I had I I created a blog just for that purpose in order to discuss what I thought needed to be discussed and to cut a long story short I was writing a lot about the Euro zone about the problems of bringing different jurisdictions together, different countries together under the eges of a common currency. >> And I was very critical and I was explaining the systemic issues that emerged. You know, lots of boring stuff from most people who are not interested in finance. And one night, it was 2011, I get an email from somebody I had never heard of, Gabe New. Yeah. >> Gabin. >> Gabin. >> And he said, um, you know, dearan is my didn't say dear. Hi. Um, my name is Gabe and you my work has nothing to do with yours but I've been following your criticisms of the way in which Europe has put its currencies together. So I was reading and he said I am a game developer. I have a a gaming company. I knew nothing about all this world and I was about to stop reading and move on. I thought okay why do I care? >> Yeah. And then he said something that piqued my interest. He said we are facing in my company similar problems to the Euro zone according to your description. I thought what you know here we have a continent we have you know 19 countries put all the currencies into one what does this have to do with gaming and so I kept reading and it was just one paragraph he said we have different gaming platforms we have different games and there has been a spontaneous emergence evolution of currencies and we are wondering I'm worrying that maybe we're making the mistake of bringing those currencies together and creating a common currency in a manner that's reminiscent of the [ __ ] up that is Europe. >> You didn't use that word and would you like to talk to me about that? So I just wondered I mean it was very intriguing. >> Yeah. >> To cut a long story short, I happened to be going to the United States a week after that. I was going to go to New York and you said, "Well, if you're coming to New York, why don't you come to Seattle as well?" And I was flown there. And I remember I arrived in Seat and there's this limo that was waiting for me. And the driver said, "You here for the interview?" I said, "No, I'm here to spend a day talking to Gabe and some people in the company about, you know, interesting stuff." Anyway, he was really very polite, the driver. And when he dropped me off at the hotel, he leaned towards me. He said, "You are here for the interview." Look at it. what a pagnacious uh driver that that guy is. Anyway, it turned out that it was an informal interview and um anyway, we we worked together for about a year and um it was great fun because what was happening was very close to what he suspected was those of you who are gamers who who know about uh the hat economy and the various look just briefly these people were game developers. They had not imagined that they would have created a multi-million or multi-billion dollar economy within their games. But what happened was that you some of those items that they dropped in order to give incentives to people to keep playing the game. >> Mhm. >> At some point they discontinued them and then they dropped different items, different gifts, different swords, different hats, different this that and the other. But what they noticed, what they actually observed was that see those older digital items were becoming collectibles. And people were stepping out of the game. They were going into eBay and trading them on trust. >> On trust. Okay. So, you and I are playing HalfLife, whatever, and you know, you want my my old hat. And so, what we do is we go into eBay, you give me $5,000. Back then, that was a huge quantity of money for for a stupid digital hat, which is worth nothing really. >> I mean, I can't believe you're saying that. Gab's going to be mad. >> Yeah. Well, you know, well, let them. I don't mind. I don't I'm quite good at making people mad anyway. So, you know, but then they would have to trust that the person that actually received the money will actually hand over the hat in the game. >> Yeah. So the idea emerged that firstly this is a bubble that if it bursts a lot of people get burnt and bonds of trust will will collapse and then gap was it that uh the you know the people will leave the game and he will lose customers that's one thing and secondly he was thinking of ways of monetizing it so you know why let eBay monetize it and not bring it into the you know the platform itself. So essentially that's and that was the beginning of my idea about technofun because I was saying that hang on a second here you have spontaneously emerging economies within gaming platform within digital universes which sounds great and very interesting except that they're owned by one man. >> Yeah he's the technofudal lord. He may be benevolent. >> Yeah I was about to say he's >> but he could be malevolent. >> At least on the on the internet he's regarded as like the only good uh benevolent technofudal lord. >> Yeah. Well, okay, but I don't know how he has behaved since 2012, which is the last time I spoke to to these people. Your audience will have to tell us. >> No, even to this day. Well, Turks have a special place for Gabin cuz I think he did uh he did like a price adjustment. Uh was it was it him who said uh like piracy is a service issue? I think it might have been him who said that. >> Sounds like him. I don't I haven't heard him say that. But sounds >> but I I do agree with that on principle cuz like I grew up, you know, in the participating in the black market for for video games cuz in Turkey it's like impossible to access them. And there was a secondary market in in the country where we would go to like a storefront like a brickandmortar retail store that would sell, you know, two LRA video games that were downloaded on the internet. It was completely it was with uh console called crack. So they would like crack the game so you could play it without having to uh without having to actually purchase it online. And he's right. The the only reason why I I downloaded, you know, these pirated copies or purchased these pirated copies at these stores was because it was inaccessible. It was impossible to access it. And uh what he did was he he did currency adjustment. >> So if a game was like $5, it was 5 L equivalent in Turkey. And Turkey >> was PPP. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. BPB adjusted. >> That's a smart thing to do. >> Yeah. And that's why Turks, you know, particularly progressive. This is simply smart business. >> Yeah, for sure. I think because other companies are much more greedy that he looks better in >> No, I understand. But it's not just that. The way in which Valve was run internally, the horizontal or at least in theory horizontal uh management structure, lack of management, the rather anarchosynicalist aura that the place had. So, you know, you you chose your own projects. You didn't have a line manager. Uh you just had an idea and you you put it out there on the internet and you asked people, you know, this is what I'm doing. Would you like to join me? And nobody could say bad idea. Don't do it. It was a question of whether you could garner enough support from other employees to to come and work with you. What I did was the few months I was there. I actually studied that economy because it was an economy in the making and it felt for as an economist it was a dream come true. Hassan, do you realize I didn't need statistics because you know I was God. >> Yeah. >> When you're God, when you have all the data, when you're omnisient. >> Mhm. >> Why do you need statistics? You need statistics only you don't when you don't know and you try to sample in order to get an approximation of the facts. If you have all the facts in real time, you know exactly who did what when. >> Yeah. >> Throughout you know from beginning to now in real time. So it was very exciting and you know and I studied the way in which different items emerged as currency candidates and how you know the exchange rates between them. It was for me as an academic economist. It's like um like being a you know a child in in a lolly store. >> Yeah. So that's just a little bit of background for for the audience that might not know, but you're here in the in the web summit in Qatar. We're in the heart of conflict right now. And for those of you who don't know, you've written extensively uh about uh geopolitical affairs in general, but also socialist communist movements around the world. And uh one of the major things that uh is is going on today that I wanted to cover is how interconnected it all is uh around a a singular figure almost Jeffrey Epstein. Uh it's uh it's one of those it's it's an absolute vindication moment for the left position. I think internationally we've talked about dollar hegemony and and potentially uh these u these predatory elite billionaires uh that uh control the world of finance, control the globe uh these these capitalists that are potentially engaging in like horrifying acts uh behind closed doors and and networking along those lines to dominate the entire planet. and the Department of Justice has been forced to release the uh Jeffrey Epstein investigation files and they've taken a slow approach so far. Um but there have been uh new dumps that came out in uh over the weekend and it's been uh very interesting to to analyze. Um have you been paying attention to this? >> A little bit. >> I'm mentioning them. >> You are? >> Yes. >> Oh, really? >> And in in the nicest possible way, I have to say. Are they are they saying like, "Oh, look at this like article from Yiannis Varafaka situation." >> No, it's m much more satisfying for me because most of our audience won't know that, but uh 10 years ago was I was the minister of finance of Greece and I was vilified. I was uh um demonized and I was presented as a baboon and a fool. Yeah. >> Uh because I was refusing a new credit card from the financial cabal that's running international finance. Just I'm sure that our audience don't know that very very briefly Greece was a subprime market of Europe. We went bankrupt and they tried to cover this up by giving us credit cards and the credit cards were given in order to make sure that the bankers that had lent these were predatory loans to the Greek oligarchy. Yeah. Uh were made whole and the Greek people who were suffering from the Greek oligarchy and international oligarchy were made to bear the cost of the credit cards. And of course when when you take a credit card to repay a loan then that credit card runs out and you have to get another credit card and then then another one. And not only that but they were handing these credit cards over. They were pushing them down our throat. It was a predatory loan, a predatory credit card on conditions of really very harsh austerity of you know shutting down hospitals and and universities and and schools. As a Turk I'm very familiar. >> Can you imagine 40% reduction in wages and pensions? >> Yes, I can imagine. >> 40%. Yeah. you have don't have that in in but it's you know so this is what's happening and I was elected with a very large majority I have to say so as not to take another credit card not to take another predatory line to say look uh we are going to go bankrupt we're going to suffer at the cost of bankruptcy but we are going to renew and they were absolutely insistent on getting my government the government I I was a member of to take on another credit card and I wouldn't sign it and because I was the finish of finance I was the only one who had the authority to sign it so the prime minister my comrade until then um who succumbed to their pressures had to get rid of me. So in one letter that that appeared yesterday as part of the dump >> right here Arian Rash to Epste discussing former prime minister Alexis >> he had to get rid of me. He wanted to get rid of me and he got what he wanted and he got rid of me. But there is also another one in which he it it what I had been saying has been v vindicated even if I'm saying so myself and that's you know that all those loans that were given to the Greek state were not bailout for Greece they were a bailout for the French and the German banks. >> Yeah. Isn't it crazy how forthcoming they were in these private correspondences? >> Why wouldn't they be? >> I mean they're untouchable. >> What do you think? >> Yeah. No, this is >> I mean they are the oligarchy. >> Yeah. They they talk about the little people there as if they are Burman as we you and I are Burman and would you expect it to be different? >> I thought that they would be a little bit more tactful and a little bit more intelligent. >> Why did you think that? >> I don't know because Absolutely. and makes you feel that you are beyond and above it. The reason why I thought they would be a little bit more intelligent is because I'm operating with the same mindset that like a normal person would where I would not have expected private correspondences to take place on a on a email tit called J Jeffrey Epstein vacation@gmail.com with like uh you know this this international cabal of of political leadership and and financial leaders. >> Yeah. Look, it just goes to show that they feel that they have impunity and immunity >> and they kind of do cuz nothing is coming of this. >> That's right. >> And this the only reason why this guy is in prison is because he must have crossed someone. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And well and then and then the only reason why he was assassinated in my opinion rather than uh the the common uh the common take is or at least the mainstream media approach is that he killed himself. I don't believe that is because they were worried that this kind of information might come out as leverage like some of these things >> I I you you may say this I couldn't possibly comment um in the end I don't give a damn what how he died you know there are so many people whose lives was absolutely wrecked you know think of the tens of millions of Americans who lost their livelihood they lost their pensions there you know 90 year old men and women now in your country working jobs bull jobs just because they lost their pension from those people. Now, do I care how they lied? No. >> Yeah. I will say what's uh what's been also remarkable about the way that this information is disseminated now is that we are in a new media environment I think where not only are the oligarchs more untouchable than ever before like this is the most I mean you you use the term technofudalism but this is this is the most like this is the closest we've ever been to not even feudalism but like straight up monarchy um where we have lords we have I mean I guess Yeah, feudalis because it's not monarchy. You have different fifs >> and different different lords. >> Well, just wait till wait till Donald Trump uh fixes the whole stabilizes the whole international design. >> He can't. >> I don't think so. >> This is a fundamentally unstable design. >> Yeah. >> Uh this is why it's detrimental to the prospects of our species, not just of our democracies or whatever it is left of our democracy. It is pure feudalism. you know there you know Tik Tok comes up it challenges Meta uh then um Oracle comes in and takes it over then you know something else is going to you know open AI comes in and you know then Google comes up with Germany and so the just like in the feudal era you may have a king like you have Trump >> but they are not all powerful their power comes from being able to balance the game or recalibrate the game between the feudal lords under them. I mean if you think of the Magna Carta which is supposed to be the foundational document of democracy today in the west what was that was a deal between the king and the bloody baronss. >> Yeah. >> Granting the baronss the right to have slaves. >> Yeah. >> So we you know in a sense the more things change the more this the more the same they stay. >> No absolutely. Um I mean this is reductive but like the way I analyze it is that if uh if God is the reason for why uh the king was supposed to have this absolute power and and you know the lords that sucked up to him were also granted like a level of prominence in a capitalist structure. It almost feels like the lie that uh is presented as meritocracy where we have this same like the the self-justifying proh process here is that these wealthy people, these endlessly wealthy people that you could consider to be baronss or or lords uh are there because they worked really hard. Maybe not because like they got the heaven's mandate or whatever, but this time they actually worked really hard and work really smart and that's the reason why they're in that position of prominence. you know the the the mafio say that and they're not wrong you know being being in the mafia running the mafia it's very hard work there's no doubt that you know watch the godfather yeah it's not easy work it takes skill it takes leadership it takes a capacity to manage people uh these people don't sleep you know they are working all day and all night to keep everybody else down so what that they work hard Elon Musk is a workaholic there's no doubt about >> yeah I guess at the end of the day the way I see it >> brilliance have nothing to do with a hard work that he does. >> No, exactly. But that was my point. He doesn't work a a trillion times harder than like >> Exactly. >> a teacher in Oklahoma who has to like do Uber on the side in the gig economy, participate in the gig economy so they can purchase like extra school supplies for their for their students. Like that person is working probably harder than Elon Musk is. Um Elon Musk has delegated the responsibility to a lot of other people who are just as in much more intelligent than he is in many respects because he's not commanding over these >> people get rich in their sleep. >> Yeah. Exactly. >> They don't have to work. The fact that they work so hard is because they they're driven by a very sad propensity towards keeping everybody below them. So it's not productive work. They may do productive things in the process but these are accidental like for you got some decent cars. Iron Master is not about that. But the main way, the main manner in which these people become so I mean incredibly wealthy, wealthy beyond the imagination of of the human mind is by making sure that they have a machine, an algorithm, whatever, you know, industrial robots, whatever that have the capacity to extract the wealth that the masses are producing and appropriating. It's just expropriation. >> Yeah. On overdrive. I have a question from one of my mom says, "Would love to hear Giannis' thoughts on the lack of job opportunities for new grads and what it means for economies when young people are shut out from careers, thus being unemployed or undermployed and losing faith in the college degree." >> Well, you know better than me how your country works. Uh you have a Ponzi scheme called the university system. Uh it keeps pushing costs up in the indebtedness of of students of the student body is is becoming the has become already the new subprime. the the more indebted the students are, the more they try to extract exchange value from the university degree, the lower the level of education that they get as a result because the only way of being genuinely educated is by being educated in a way that goes beyond being trained. And so in the end you have the students, young people, uh resembling guinea pigs on a treadmill, they go very, it doesn't matter how much faster they go, they are not going to go anywhere. uh and then simultaneously all the work that is being done in Silicon Valley is creating uh capacities that could enhance productivity but don't. So you know take for instance I was just to answer this question directly. I was looking at uh graduates of uh schools of radiology. Now AI can be immensely helpful when it comes to reading CAT scans and MRIs and so on because it really can say oh look look there's a shadow there. You should you know with my experience the AI bot says this needs to be looked at. That's magnificent. But that's now not how the AI bot is being marketed by its vendor. The way it's marketed is they go to the hospital and say, "Look, you have 10 people reading these scans. Fire nine of them and the AI will do the rest of it." So that's why you can't find a job. And the one person who does find work um has their soul destroyed because they can't read those scans. They cannot verify whether you know the AI is hallucinating or not. but they take all the liability and if they anything goes wrong it's down to them. So you you you get a lot rid of a lot of those positions in the same process within the same process that in creates student debt and then once the few of them who get jobs have their lives destroyed their working lives destroyed. >> Yeah. because they're working like technological innovation is a good thing but under capitalism technological innovation only works to displace the existing labor force and therefore it it instead of offsetting the amount of work that you're doing like lifting your burden making your job easier while still keeping your wages uh relatively high and having uh the freedom to do other things it causes you to do 10 people's job and and 10 people's responsibility is is delegated to one person >> it takes us all the way back to KL Marx I mean what was Marx's critique of uh industrialization. It wasn't a critique of the machines. He love the machines. Yeah. He wasn't a critique of the factory. He thought that these machines, factories, electricity networks later on after Marx were capable of liberating us from need, from want, from chores. >> Yeah. >> But his problem was that if these belong to the 0.1% and today when it comes to alos, we're talking about the 0.001%. >> Yeah. Then those instead of those machines being our slaves, we are enslaved to them. >> Yeah. I it's a cliche to be like Markx didn't consider this when he considered pretty much everything. But I do feel like uh the not even just Markx but or uh economists before him as well uh did almost could not comprehend the the unlimited greed that people have in general. um because I don't know where we go from here as far as uh you know profit rates uh declining and then just ruerless you know billions of people that are out of a job where all of the all the value for the remainder of the workforce is being extracted uh in in incredibly high rates by the super super wealthy >> well can we disagree on this are sure >> I don't believe that human beings are characterized and typified by unlimited greed And it's not true. I don't I don't believe it. >> And it's not true that Markx believed that. What Markx said was that human beings embedded in the logic of capital. Once we become enslaved to the machine and the machines need to accumulate in the logic of profit maximization and profit accumulation, then the human spirit slowly dies and it is replaced by unbridled greed which is soul destroying >> like a like a coal miner's natural. critique was that that that capitalism is not unjust but that it is irrational. >> Yeah. >> And it is killing our soul and our capacity to enjoy life to you know to lead a successful life. >> Um and therefore it injustice is a is a byproduct of the capitalist accumulation process. >> Yeah. Just as uh what did he I think it was he said that the coal miner's natural position is a coal miner thinks that the natural uh position is to to have black lung. I'm paraphrasing. I'm I'm butchering the the the quote but under capitalism people assume that the natural tendency is towards greed and self-interest >> and there's nothing natural about it. >> Yeah. >> Capitalism is this we need to understand that capitalism feudalism all that all everything we see are totally unnatural and against human nature. >> Yeah. But my question more so was about uh where we go from here because um I mean labor organizing is at disastrous levels in in in the United States of America and even much of the the western liberal capitalist world as well. Liberalism is is uh collapsing uh as it did uh only a century ago and it does feel like uh the same cycle of of maintaining stability and order uh through a a fascist organizing is is coming back in fashion. But this time the main country that is dominating this process is a nuclear armed superpower. Uh a superpower that is more powerful than any other I would say historic uh empire. >> Mhm. >> You know especially with the technological availabilities and I don't know how we organize in that world especially with no real uh counterweight with no real counterbalance like nation state that is uh opposing the United States of America. Well, you know, dialectical thinking, which is what Markx and Engles taught me, u is the my only source of hope. Why? What is dialectic is the fact that what we observing is a contradiction. >> Yeah. >> You know, you have a remarkable technological means that could liberate us and at the same time we have the worst form of illberty in the history of humanity. >> Yeah. >> It's worse the feudalism we have now. Yeah. I mean people underestimate the degrees of freedom that uh peasants used to have >> in the fifs in the 18th 17th 16th centuries right >> even freedom of movement >> freedom of movement and also you know they worked far few hours they did a lot of rituals every third day was a holiday >> they sung and they danced and and they lived in in their grandparents houses and they didn't have to worry about you know social housing or private markets or anything like that so I'm not saying that life was fantastic But we anyway you you know what I'm catching my drift. >> Yeah. >> Uh >> this huge contradiction between you know the capacities that we have already developed as a species and the poor quality of life that we're that the the masses are experiencing even rich people you know who go to shrinks and you know they can't sleep at night and they have to take pills and they have to find gurus and you know go to India in order to find themselves and they never do right. Yeah. >> So this contradiction is the source of hope because this can't continue like this. So of course it you know it will all end up you know blowing up in our hands um with a nuclear disaster or more likely climate catastrophe uh or collapse. But at the same time the possibility is there to grab those machines and make them work for us to use those capacities. You know we we can feed the world. I mean there's no need for people to be hungry. There's no need for people not you know not to have housing except the capitalist relations production. So you know that for me is the source of hope. But you mentioned Taiinians. Look Tinians sold out. It's really very simple. The moment they gave up the notion of social ownership of the workplace and they simply tried for better wages and terms and conditions. >> Yeah. >> That's it. They lost the game. Uh and to to to to illustrate this what I tell people is this. You're worried about robots and you AI and all that replacing people and getting rid of you and firing you. Well, think about it. Is it the machine that is the problem or the capitalist relations of production? Let's suppose you have a factory of a thousand people and it produces widgets. Doesn't matter what it is. And it produces a thousand widgets. So, a thousand workers produce a thousand widgets, but let's keep the math simple, right? >> And there is this AI um operated or driven machine that could produce a thousand widgets out of 500 words. Now if this company belongs to the private equity fund, the private equity fund will instruct the CEO to fire half the workers and get the AI bot to do the work. Right? But if this is owned on the basis of one employee, one share, one vote, they will have a little meeting and they say, "Do you want this machine?" They say, "Yes, of course we want this machine. Let's bring it in and we're going to work four hours a day instead of eight hours a day." >> Yeah. >> Right. And then we can look after our kids or elderly parents >> or even five hours a day rather than four hours a day. And then you offset the cost of the machine that you're paying for and therefore you still end up working 5 hours a day uh and have the same exact hour >> whatever it's going to be democratic decision. Exactly. And the machines will be your servant >> not vice versa. So let's not focus on tech. This is what I've been saying here in DA >> ironic. >> Yeah. Don't don't forget about the tech. concentrate on the social relations of production, distribution, exchange, and communication. >> Yeah. I mean, I'll be honest, judging by the interactions that I've had so far, I don't think anybody's focusing on the social relations. >> I did today. >> I mean, I >> they were looking at me as if I was an extraterrestrial. >> Yeah. No, they're so far removed from that world. Everyone is on >> That's why we're here, right? >> Yeah. >> We're here to just make them feel slightly uncomfortable about about being so disconnected what the true issues are. >> Yeah. But what's interesting is they do recognize uh the friction like it's impossible not to notice the contradictions worse. And I think a lot of people uh even wealthy people start noticing the instability. It's kind of like uh the conversations that have taken place. I'm sure you're more familiar with this than I am, but like in Davos for like the last decade have I think shifted dramatically in the direction of like maybe we need to do first they said uh maybe we need to do ethical capitalism. Do you remember? Uh this was uh I think around 2016 or 2017 when they were like maybe we need to do ethical capitalism. Maybe we need to focus on uh stakeholder capitalism. >> They got a hernia laughing when I >> Yeah. stakeholder capitalism rather than shareholder capitalism where like workers also are a part of the state. >> But they're never going to do it. >> They talk about it. >> They have a collective action problem. >> Yeah. You know, it maybe they recognize that that that it would be in their common interest to fund universities so that students do not go into debt to have a proper health service because the one you have in the United States which is coming to Europe. >> Oh yeah. >> On a daily basis increasingly so we're importing our brain and our private it's totally mad. They know that right? They know that but they simply don't know how to react to this knowledge. So it's what this is the the tragedy of the commons. They have that they know that you know to collectively they should be doing that but you know there is an a strategy which is far more profitable for them. It is to say well let all the others do it while we don't. This is a prison dilemma. >> Yeah. >> And then the result is none of them does it. >> Yeah. >> So they talk about it and they expect everybody else to do it except them. And then you know in a never- ending circle of confirmation uh when the others are not doing it either they say well what am I going to be the fool that does that do it on my own. >> Yeah. And also even in America you look at uh domestic output domestic production. It's like with the with the services offered uh with corporate consolidation it's much easier to engage in in price leadership uh than ever before when everyone else is is constantly corner cutting and then the other like two or three market competitors also engage in the same process. They'll be like, "Okay, we should do this as well." And then the average person doesn't realize why the the services that they're getting are no longer as affordable or no longer as as good as they once were. And that creates more instability. And in the process of that instability, you have this cycle where uh reactionaries will come in and say, "Oh, it's because of insert a vulnerable group. Oh, it's because of trans people. It's because of >> Sure. >> It's scapegoating." >> Yeah. Exactly. Just like pointing the finger of blame. But that's very successful and that's how we arrive at someone like Donald Trump >> for divide and conquer. The British Empire ruled threequarters of the world using it. >> Yeah. >> And you know then racism in the United States managed to separate white workers from black workers. Um and and then you have identity politics doing the same thing at many different uh levels. So we have to go back to organizing. >> Yeah. But I I do think that and this is something I think about quite a bit. I feel like one of the uh major issues is the lack of political education especially in America. I mean it's been it's been uh steadily ripped apart uh over the last half a century uh with Red Scare and I mean it's illegal to be a communist and be a trade uh union leader in this country still like supposedly the the freest of the free speech countries out there. And yet your your political ideology is such a such a threat that you can't even be openly a communist and be a part of a labor union or be a leadership in a labor union. And I feel like that plays a major role where that's how you arrive at rank and filers in places like the teamsters. There's many rank and filers in my chat that will constantly complain about their uh their their union brethren being super right-wing and super reactionary and and voting for Donald Trump. Um, obviously the alternative is the Democrats, which is also a liberal party that's also a bourgeoa party. Uh, and and they're not necessarily representing their interests either, but >> what do you mean not necessarily? They >> I mean, they're not they're not represent them like u deplorables. Remember >> that's true. >> Remember Hillary? >> Yeah. No, for sure. >> But but like there is an opportunity. >> Donald Trump didn't really have to try very hard to become president of the United States. No, >> he had the Clintoners and the Obamas doing all his work for him. >> Yeah. And and not I mean even with Kla Harris too. Oh my especially >> especially Kla Harris. It was disastrous. And I just kept yelling at them. I went to the DNC. I talked to them in person. I was like what are you guys doing? Like this is this is a disaster. >> Why did you go to the DNC? The DNC want Trump to be in the presidency. If the alternative is somebody like Mandani or you know our friend Bernie. Yeah. They they actively chose Trump in 2015 16 over Bernie Sanders. They they they knew what they were doing. >> I mean they did write about it too like all the even in 2020 when Bernie was doing >> because they think oh you know Trump okay four years then we'll come back. >> Whereas if the progressive side of politics gets on board and they are popular my god that's it. We've lost our privileges. We've lost our access to Wall Street. Do you think Trump's uh uh like the volatility that Trump represents uh not beyond the capital owners but like for the professional managerial class and whatnot because they are the ones who are very frustrated right now in America? Um the at the tippy top the the capital owners >> they deserve it. >> It's true. >> But but will that wake them up? Cuz I do think it is a little bit >> well you know look think of the 1920s and 1930. Now why did the fascists manage to gain power? It is because the bourgeoa liberals were more peerful of the left. Oh yeah. Than they were of the fascists. And when you know Bush came to shove, they chose the fascists. I mean Hitler was appointed chancellor by Hindenburg. >> You know the most liberal of aristocrats. >> Yeah. >> Because he thought well okay I can control him. Well you can't control him. Same this is what you the people you're referring to now uh are feeling about Trump. They see the hooded men of ice um just wrecking the country and wrecking the cities and they think, "Oh my god, what's happening?" But you know, mate, you chose Trump over Bernie. >> Yeah. >> And you would do it again. >> I don't think that that's what I was saying. I don't I think that is actually changing. I think they would choose Manny for president instead of somebody like Trump. >> I don't know because the the option the option has never been represented uh uh hypothetically. >> No, no. In this environment, I I do think that uh looking at the approvals of someone like Zoramani from the professional managerial class that normally uh would be very resistant to any sort of left position beyond, you know, uh liberal Democrats that love small businesses and talk about how small business are the backbone of the American economy, all this stuff. They don't want Republicans to be in charge. And they're now recognizing that electability is actually uh in favor of the left position rather than the establishment Democrats, the moderate Democrats. And it's largely in part because of Chuck Schumer's ineptitude, his incompetence, or rather I don't know if incompetence is the right word, because they are very competent. I think liberal Democrats are very competent at gatekeeping and at uh shutting off the left position from gaining any sort of access. They're incredibly competent when it comes to that. They behave like they're incompetent and feckless in their resistance to Trump, but I think that is by design. >> Hassan, do you think their lives has been materially diminished by Trump? I don't think it has. I mean they if you know what aesthetically they don't like Trump >> if we're talking about >> they don't like ice you know the side of the hooded men and all that but you know in the end if you look at their portfolio if you look at their net worth if you look at you know what they are doing every day every night where they go you know to their office to their various dues that and gigs and whatever it is that they do at night their life has not been that severely affected um you know they may be interested in somebody like Mandani because he's electable and so on. But the moment he's going to move from New York to the national scene >> and he will not be able to have a three-point plan, he will have to have a multi-point plan. Yeah. >> And the moment that his agenda starts undercutting their privileges, I very much fear that they will yet again succumb to the allure of fascism. >> How do we combat that? >> Well, we don't count on them. We count on the right-wing teamsters. On the right, not the leaders of the teamsters, but you know, the rank and file. We have to speak to them. We have to address them with respect. Uh you know, dismissing the Trump voters as fascist is a very big mistake. I call Trump a fascist. But you must never surrender masses of deprived and depraved people to the fascists. They are not fascists. They are people who whose discontent has driven them to vote in that way. And but you know, you I I do agree. >> We have we have to pull them back. >> I do agree with that. My my way of communicating this is like whether you think they're racist or fascist or not, it doesn't matter. They still need healthcare, right? So yeah, >> this is this is one area that you can talk to them directly on. I've done this uh in the past as well. I mean, this is a more comical approach, but I there's this podcast where these two these two kids have like ultra mega parents called a necessary conversation podcast, and I actually talk to their parents uh with them. And when they have a conversation, they're very liberal. when they have a conversation with them, they they have this dynamic where they're very angry at their at their parents because their parents say like unhinged things, right? Justifying, you know, the assassination of Alex Petti, things like that. And and in that conversation when I was talking to them, I was able to convince them of of the need for uh socialized medicine, even though they are recipients of it. The the parents are cuz they're old. They're like 75 plus. So, they're already they're already receiving government funded healthcare. So, they're like, I got mine. I'm good. but uh and and even uh convinced them on the necessity for public education as well in order to remain competitive in the international market against other labor forces and uh and in general. And I think that conversation can be had. It's just the major problem is that the the Democrats don't want to have that conversation at all. Like the political party does not want to have that conversation. >> But remember, it was Obama that wrecked the public option. >> And essentially Obamacare was a great boom for the insurance company. Mhm. >> So, you know, I lived in the in the United States at the time and it was really very hard for me to barrack for Barack, you know, to to support Obamacare. I mean, I wanted to >> it's a rightwing it was already a rightwing, >> but it was a right-wing thing. You know, people were pointing out the fact that he was getting he was enriching the insurance companies. >> Yeah. >> It was Yeah. >> Well, that's not what they were pointing out. The right-wing was actually saying that they're going to do death panels. They're going to kill people. Like the right-wing was very indecent about their propaganda that was coming from the top of the Republic. But some of the more thinking Republicans, they didn't defend it in the way they would defend social security if they're recipients of social security. Yeah. You know, the the cover that was offered was crap. And it was really terrible the cover that Obamacare offered. You may say that's better than nothing, but in the end, the greatest beneficiaries were the insurance companies. Of course, it was a it was basically a a subsidy for insurance companies, insurance providers, and that's don't have the public option, >> but it's so good for the GDP. Have you thought about that? >> Yeah, it's a it's great. It's uh that's why that's why United Healthcare is I think what like one of the top, >> you know, you need to follow this up. If you burn every house down, GDP goes up. >> Yeah. >> Okay. >> No, I know. Bloody what? >> I I No, I understand. I My point is, uh what do we do with all this discontent? How do we capture this energy and and feed it into more productive organizing? I'm not going to tell Giannis the the classic joke of the two economists walking uh in the forest and stepping on dog. I'm sure he's heard it many times. >> No, actually I haven't. >> No, stop. I'm not doing it. >> Do you know the one about the the economist, the physicist and the chemist that are on a desert island? >> No, I haven't. >> And they have a can no can opener. >> No. And the physicist says, "I'm going to go and find some some some a piece of glass to concentrate the sun's rays in order to melt down." The chemist goes out, try to find some kind of acid. Um, and the economist says, "Why don't we just assume that it's open?" >> Yeah, I like that. Uh, I mean, you're an economist yourself as well. Uh, but, uh, >> no one is perfect. >> Yeah. So, getting to the the crisis in the region that we're in right now, you and I you you had a very interesting take on Trump's tariffs, and I want to talk about that a little bit because I think we have points of agreement as far as like uh whether or not Trump will be able to build a a rebuild a robust uh industrial base here in this country or um but um you were talking about potentially uh capital like foreign capital coming back into the United States of America and like the economic activity that's like coming back to the American heartland. land. Would you do you want to elaborate on that a little bit? >> Yeah. Uh let let me say that if if you read their texts, Steven Miran, Scott Bessons and their speeches and so on and the whole of the Council of Economic Advisors, there is a logic there which one I reject. But the Democrats are pretending that these are buffoons who don't know what they're talking about and it's not true. >> I mean the the Trumpists have more of a logic, however malignant it may be, than the Democrats do or the European centrists do. And it's this. The Trump team acknowledges that American hijgemony after 1971 after the end of blood and woods has depended entirely on the hegemony of the dollar. >> Yeah. >> You know because that was the whole point. The whole point was to blow up the ber system that the United States had created in order to maintain and husband this is sexist word by know but you know maintain its surpluses by the time by the end of the Vietnam war and great society LBJ's great society and so on those surplus had become deficits and around 1977 the administration the Nixon administration as it turned out had a simple choice be German that is tighten the belt and introduce austerity or do what they did which is to say okay we have a deficit we're going to make it bigger and we're and we're going to make the capitalists of the rest of the world pay for it how by and and the working class in in the United States pay for it how well we are going to become the net importer of the universe >> so the German capital sent their Mercedes the French send their champagnes you know the Japanese send their Toyotaas whatever right >> and we will simply print dollars and pay them with dollars and what are What are they going to do? They're going to have to send their dollars back to New York because they can't spread their dollars in Germany or in Japan or in China. So, they have to send it back to the United States and that becomes three rivers. One goes to the federal government to buy treasuries. Effectively, the foreign capitalists will be funding the American army and the American social security system and the American tax cuts for the ruling class. That's one stream, one river. The second one is going to be real estate. Therefore, Trump and the Trump Trumpike realtors. Yeah, that's how they became rich with all this torrent of money coming from abroad which is the result of the American trade deficit. And the third one, you know, some money got went into the stock stock exchange. Yeah. >> A limited amount because they didn't want them to buy a lot of, you know, important companies like big tech and all that. >> Mhm. >> Okay. So that that is the model. Now the Trumpists love this model, but they're really worried and they they're right to be worried because as one of them said to me when in a discussion I was having, I was quite impressed by that. She said, "Look, we overdid it. The dollar zone around the world is gigantic because we printed so much and we keep printing and the more deficits we have, the more we print. So the dollar zone, think of it as a a balloon that keeps inflating, right? >> Yeah. >> It become at some point it can be and then we're we're going to become compared to the American manufacturing capacity which is shrinking. >> Yeah. >> So we need to find some kind of balance again. And the way we're going to do it is by dividing the dollar, right? And we are going to put tariffs up not so much in order to keep them up but in order to damage the Europeans, the Japanese and the Chinese because if if I have a trade deficit towards you. >> Mhm. >> Right. Then there's no way you can win a tariff war against me. >> Yeah. >> There's no way you'll be damaging yourself more than you are damaging me. Yeah. >> So they put up these tariffs. The idea was to put up these tariffs to bring them to the negotiating table to do what? One of the things that they did, for instance, immediately after the inauguration was to bring the Japanese in and say, "Okay, you've got $1.2 trillion dollars. I want you to sell this and buy stable coins, US dollar denominated uh stable." Why? Why would they want to do that? Because by selling the dollars, they bring they help bring the the value down of the dollar, the exchange rate. And you know what does Tether do with dollars that they take? They buy treasuries. So effectively the Trump administration gets to sell more debt to finance itself and the tax cuts for the rich. So they have a plan. This plan has the capacity of stabilizing the hegemonic power of the Trumpists of the MAGA movement. Not the movement but you know the Scott peasants the guy you know well congratulations. You have another idiot who's going to lead the Federal Reserve. Mr. Walsh. >> Yeah. >> Right. The guy who was saying that in 2008 I remember him. He was advocating an increase in interest rates while Leman Brothers was collapsing. I mean, a guy who is incompetent and corrupt. >> Yeah, >> he's going to be the new chairman of the Fed. H So this is their plan. This is what they're trying to do. Now my guess is it is already helping Trump bring into the United States. I mean it's not my guess. I can observe that. I can see it's happening. Torrent of money is going to come in as investment. It's coming. German money is coming in. Japanese money is coming in. Chinese coming money would be coming in if Trump allowed it but he's not allowing it. So so from Europe and Japan money is flooding in but it won't create the number of jobs that will satisfy and satiate uh the MAGA movements first for good quality jobs because of automation and because of AI. So in the end the thing is blow up. >> Howard uh Lutnik has openly stated that as well where he's like it's going to be great. We're have we're building these factories but they're all going to be automated and it's like okay but then the people that voted for this to happen are not going to see any of >> that's why he sends the troops in to abduct Maduro. He sends the ships you know the the seventh fleet or sixth fleet or whatever >> in the neck of the woods where we happen to be. >> But that kind of stuff is not popular with the base either I don't think. >> Yeah. But you know what? The moment this the the first few shots are fired, they all coales around the flag, don't they? >> I mean, to a certain degree. Yeah, we did see that. That's only if there is no resistance. Cuz that's the reality is that like uh I mean, Trump is uh but >> he's very careful. He's not doing >> Yeah, he's he's he's doing it as efficiently as possible. >> He's operating like a hitman. >> Yeah. >> He goes in there, abducts Maduro, and then he says, "Okay, now I'm going to have a deal with his party." >> Yeah. Um but what happens if there is a resistance and at which point then there has to be additional response and then further military incursion and that's very costly that's politically costly. I mean I don't know if that'll happen. We'll see. We'll see what happens with Iran. Iran has been unimaginably restrained over and over again in this tit for tat and uh and I do see like a lot of a lot of countries that are in the periphery that are trying to play ball cuz now the new game is basically you give Trump money directly and they won't hopefully they won't hurt you >> except it doesn't work. It's like you know uh giving a little bit of blood to the shark. >> I mean cutter gave you a little finger to the shark that's not going to pacify the shark. >> Yeah. Cutter gave $500 million plane, right? Uh they learned from their mistakes in 2016 when they refused to do so because they didn't understand it when Jared Kushner was like, "Give me money." And they were like, "No." And then they almost got invaded. And now in the Epstein files, we found out that the UAE played a big role in that. Um cuz at the time it it seemed like it was Saudi Arabia uh that that wanted to uh move in on uh on Qatar, but it turns out that the UAE played a much larger role in that alongside Israel uh than to punish uh a country that is like somewhat more neutral uh than the rest of the Gulf States, especially with respect to Iran and also with uh you know the the resistance. Yeah, look, there's no doubt that this strategy that I try to describe of the Trumpists is not going to stabilize the world. It's going to destabilize the world. >> But it's not that it is lacking logic. This is, you know, this is what I'm trying to do regarding this neck of the woods here. >> Uh I'm a viferous critic of the theocratic regime in Iran. But at the same time, I think we should do whatever we can to defend Iran from imperialism, >> from the attacks by the United States >> because it's for the people of Iran to decide how they will run their country. And you know, while I'm a critic of the Iranian regime, they have played a stabilizing role in the world. >> They are the ones who defeated ISIS. They they have never attacked anyone. You know, they were attacked by Iraq under Saddam Hussein. It was an American >> an American intellect. >> It was an they used Saddam Hussein their henchmen in order to attack the the Iranian revolution. >> So people say, "Oh, you're trying to play both sides." No, I believe that sovereign people should be dependent including a regime that one doesn't like from imperialist intervention. >> Yeah. >> So that the people in there can resolve the contradictions within without uh you know being taken over and being colonized because this is what the Americans want to do. not Americans, the Trumpists want to do with Iran. They want to colonize Iran. And we saw, you know, if if you really dislike the Iranian theocratic regime, you got to ask yourself the question, why did it occur? And it occurred because of 1953, the CIA with British intelligence overthrew Mosedc. They overthrew a genuine functioning democracy. They imposed a fascist regime under the sha. >> Oh yeah. You know, when I was a student, when I first moved to England, uh, in the first month I was there, an Iranian friend of mine who lived opposite me in the hall of residence, I was murdered by Savak agents. So, I know exactly what, uh, [ __ ] wants to do and what the CIA wants to do. They want to bring back the horror story that they had imposed in 1953 about the Iranian people. >> Well, I don't even know if Palibi wants to do that. I feel like he just wants to >> Who gives a damn? He's an idiot. >> Yeah. Yeah. He's He's a puppet, but >> he's following orders. Yeah, he but he's not even >> he wants to go back. He wants to be king. >> I I but he he kind of gives me the vibes of a guy who's just like happy living in Maryland. >> Yeah. Well, maybe they made him ask for but he they actually tried to present him as the leader of the Iraq's which he's not. >> You know the people who are demonstrating against uh Kamani in Iran, they don't want [ __ ] back. >> Yeah. Well, if well in Western media they cover it as though he's like the guy. But yeah, um no, I >> we saw this back in Iraq, remember? >> Yeah, they'll welcome us as as liberators. But no, I I completely agree. Uh that is actually something I've I've talked about quite a bit as well. Like one must understand why the Iranian revolution took place in the first place. Uh which means that like uh the the Islamic Republic is also like I I see it as like three different points of pressure. Obviously the most significant one being the economic pressure from sanctions with the express purpose of of destroying the country's health and destroying the country's economy killing people is so unstable killing people. >> Yeah. It's so unstable that they rise up, right? Um sanctions are basically to say you're going to starve until you kill your leaders. >> No other way about it. Um but then there's the internal there's a domestic repression that the the Ayatollah is is engaging in partially because of their own personal zealatry but also partially because they want to satiate the base that they have the 20 to 30% uh uh you know base of of support that they have that justifies their uh existence and justifies their control over the country. And I think they have to they have to scale that back because this this cycle of repression is only going to continue to grow and that creates a a a perfect environment for Americans and the Israelis to take control over that. >> Indeed. >> Uh and and >> the last thing we want to do to to see happen is for Mossad, the CIA to take over Iran. That would be a catastrophe for the whole region, for the maybe the whole world. >> Because look, even to begin with, let's let let me be clear on something. The Iranian revolution was a genuine revolution. It was genuine people's uprising. >> It was still in a way in in the end it ended up killing my comrades in Iran. You know the two communist party they were all murdered. >> Yeah. >> But I'm not going to say that it was not a popular revolution. It was a popular revolution. It didn't come from outside. It came from within. It was a result of all this story that begins in 1953. The message I get from Iranians who are opposing the regime is increasingly they are worried that Mossad and CIA will take over and effectively do what happened in Libya because Libya and Syria but Libya is a is a great example because you know the the standard of living in Libya under Gaddafi what everyone may think about Gaddafi he was brut's no doubt but very high and you know security was pretty good I mean people led good lives in >> especially in comparison to now and and now it's it's like a scene from from from a Hollywood movie uh after Armageddon. >> Yeah. And you know even so as what Trump is succeeding in doing is creating a coalence even of um of dissident in Iran around the regime to protect it from the Mossad and the CIA plan to wreck the country and to turn it into you know um a god forsaken place. >> I think that one of the >> I'm saying this as an 80s. >> Yeah. But one of the one of the major issues I think with the uh Islamic Republic is that their number one enemy internally uh in order to maintain stability in order to continue uh controlling the country in its entirety has always been the left. It's not I don't think it's the I don't think it's like the sectarian conflicts that brew in the in the country. It's a very diverse country. Obviously some of it is propped up by the CIA, you know, like you have Kurdish militancy, the Baloistan uh independence movement and things like that. Um, but I don't I think the major problem that they see that threatens their power and threatens their absolute control over the country is the historic socialist or communist position in the country. Um, and they've been able to very successfully wipe that out through, you know, brutal repression not dissimilar to what you were talking about with with Savak. >> But I have to say the CIA has been very successful and Mossad has been very successful. I'm sure what happened during the 12- day war. I mean they clearly the CIA and the MSAD have units. >> Oh yeah. >> A lot of the people who were who died during the riots during the rebellion during the the genuine um uprising a lot of them were killed by agents. >> Yeah. >> There's no doubt about that. >> I'm I by the way for the record because I see some chatters responding. I'm saying historically uh this was the left was the was the primary >> uh threat to their power which is why they you know ruthlessly cracked down on the left in 1979. >> Yeah. And and >> you know they they actually rose up together with the communist party. The dude party >> exactly participated in the Iranian revolution. At some point they were picked out and they shot in one building and then they were all massacred. >> Yeah. And now it's not now it's a it's a nent movement in uh in comparison to what it was historically. >> That's what I was saying. Um so there is not really a I I don't know if there's like a really robust left movement left in Iran in general. >> It probably isn't. There is the tradition. >> Yeah. >> Uh and look, Iran is a hugely sophisticated society. We must remember that, right? I mean their science uh prowess, their literature, their music, their theater, it's a you know it's it's a magnificent society that you know could do really well without the sanctions. And you know in a sense if something holds back this evolution and this development and the demise of theocracy is the sanctions. >> Yeah. the sanctions have been detrimental to the democratization of Iran >> in the same way that the sanctions in Russia uh have been a godsend for Putin. >> Yeah. Well, I think the difference there is that uh it's it was much more difficult to isolate Putin uh from the global markets uh as opposed to especially with like its energy. It's not just that >> uh it's a Europe where whereas they have been able to effectively isolate Iran >> through Dubai, through China, through Pakistan and so on. But the point I'm making that about Putin being so much strengthened by the sanctions has doesn't have anything to do with trade. It's got to do with the oligarchs. >> Yeah. >> Because one of the greatest problems that Putin had before the war, before he invaded Ukraine, was that he couldn't control the oligarchs. He tried. He, you know, he imprisoned a few of them. He killed a couple of them and so on. But still they kept most of their money abroad. >> Yeah. >> And they used the openness the the membrane which allowed them to communicate between east and west uh in order to keep one foot in Moscow, one foot in uh you know Britain or you know Spain or Portugal or wherever. With the sanctions he had a deal to offer them. Say listen choose. get out or come in here and I'm going to give you IKEA, McDonald's, Deutsche Bank, you know, because now the these conglomerates are leaving. I'm inheriting them and I'm giving them to you, but on condition that you keep your dough here and you're under my direct control. And they said, "Okay." And they had a deal and now he is far more in control of the oligarchy than he was before 2022. >> Yeah. Um I I I don't even I don't even know where uh that ambition ends in Ukraine in general. I I it's entirely in his hands now. Like a lot of people in America think, oh, Donald Trump is uh you know, so close to Putin and that's the reason why uh he keeps getting dominated by Putin. And and there is a there is definitely a a level of reverence that Trump has towards even people that you wouldn't expect like Kim Jong-un. Um >> why wouldn't you li strong? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. >> He drools over strong people. >> Yeah. But but outside of that, I would say that >> he likes them um misogynistic. >> Yeah. >> He likes them hating trans people. >> Yeah. >> He likes them being totally nationalistic. Um not tolerating descent. So what is there >> he's he's almost jealous about the the level of control and power that they have over their nation states. But outside of that, um I do think that he recognizes the pressures that he's getting from uh the American side to like try to manage uh the the Ukrainian ceasefire. >> Um and but his attempts are are uh all for not because I feel like it's entirely in the hands of Putin at this point. Like he is dominated the the the battlefield and that's it. That's >> quite right. that reality is is impossible to to contend with if you're I mean that that is a major blow to American hegemony perhaps more than even like almost to the same degree as like Chinese manufacturing I would say. >> Yeah. But you see there is a whole school you know this better than me the realist school in the United States. Hri Kissinger before he died was saying you know my friend John Mishheimimer um says similar things. Um, it's not what I say, but it's what they say. They say, "Look, it took us decades to separate Russia from China, to divide them >> and conquer over them." And now what the Democrats did along with the idiotic centrist Europeans is they push Putin in the bosom in the embrace of China. So he wants to end that because he thinks that he sees that China is the only game in town that he has to worry about, the only opposition to his uh aspirations and to his program. Uh so that's not irrational. What I find distressing is the centrists lack of a cogent answer to the question, what the hell do you want to do with Ukraine? >> Yeah. >> Do you have a a plan for war? They don't. You know, I I get the answer. Well, but you know, he's the meaning Putin. He's the new Hitler. I said, well, if he's the new Hitler, why aren't we sending troops to fight him because, you know, last time we had a Hitler, we drove him into the bunker and forc him to commit suicide. Why? Why aren't you doing that? Ah, no. No, you want the Ukrainians to do that >> with third rate weapons that you sent them, right? Uh when there is no way they can do that. So essentially, you know, the worst service you can >> unless they unless they disband NATO and and get the Turkish military to go and and fight and defend Ukraine cuz they don't even have like the Europeans don't even have a competent enough standing military. So they have no plan for the numbers >> and they have no plan for peace. >> Yeah. This this is what is so distressful. And in the end, you know what they have? They have a vested interest and this is especially the Europeans to prolong the carnage because in Europe the only growth model that they have and that is just a sign of the orchestrated idiocy which you're running the European Union the only growth plan they have is armaments you know spending money on guns but because they they can't even borrow money because we don't have the equivalent of your treasury right we have a central bank but we don't have the equivalent of your treasury the only way of doing that is by austerity shifting money from schools, from hospitals and so on to Rhino metal to take over Volkswagen factories and build tanks where Volkswagen used to to build cars. >> I think that's going to be >> but in order to convince the elector to do that, you have to have a simmering war forever. >> Yeah. >> So my message to Ukrainians is, you know, don't trust the Europeans. The Europeans want you to be killed slowly. >> Yeah. >> Slowly. So that they can maintain the facade of having a growth uh program. >> Yeah. And I that's why I think like uh the like a lot of people said, "Oh, Trump wants to destroy NATO." I think that's a laughable concept that people uh that's a laughable argument that people engage in. I mean, maybe if he took over Greenland, but even then it it would not have disbanded NATO. Yeah. >> Because NATO is a profoundly important part of the the protection racket that we have. So that when we tell when we tell our European allies, you have to spend 5% of your GDP, you're spending that on American weapons that you're purchasing for your own defense. And and like you said, the the other side of that is the austerity that kicks in where Europe is becoming more and more Americanized. Like Europe had at least a good run with attempts at social democracy and I feel like what comes next >> died in 1991. >> Yeah. And it's it's now it's it's in its death nails. Like it's in its death rows. The the European social dem democratic system. >> Oh, that's finished. >> Yeah. Cuz now now >> killed it off with the Euro crisis. >> Yeah. Now you guys in uh in Europe will also say, "Oh, the ons is going to find out why we don't have healthcare." Have you ever heard that? Americans say that all the time. Whenever whenever we're doing force projection, dumbass Americans will be like, "Oh, this uh militancy is going to find out why we don't have healthcare." I'm like, why don't you find out why you don't have healthcare? Shouldn't you be mad that you don't have healthcare and instead you're doing this? >> Yeah. >> It's not it's not improving your life in any meaningful capacity. And now >> I wonder if that uh that uh American like that western chauvinism will also be a a big enough motivator for the Europeans to continue on this dangerous path because they're very the these past couple of months have been very interesting. This has been very interesting but you know we tend to exaggerate the extent to which this is the point of inflection or a major break from the past. You know I grew up in a country that was a member of NATO and it was fascist and you come from a country that um managed to combine fascism and NATO. So when people say to me oh but you know a democracy has the right to be a member of NATO because NATO is the defender of democracy. I say what I grew up in a NATO >> dictatorship fascist dictatorship right number one. Number two is NATO is not about defending democracy. It's like the mafia. >> It creates insecurity to to to sell you protection. >> Yeah. >> And if you know at some point Putin volunteered to Russia to join NATO and they said no no no because then who are we organizing against? >> That was really Do you did you listen to the Tucker Carlson conversation with Vladimir Putin? >> No. I couldn't bear doing >> I I thought it was very interesting for one reason and that is because the entire time I mean Vladimir Putin does the same thing where he like talks about you know he's he's like a big fan of Dugan and he talks about the historical reasons as to why Ukraine is Russia all this stuff and that's whatever that's [ __ ] right but there was a point in that conversation where he turned around and was like we wanted to be America's Israel >> and and I think >> that is correct >> and I think that's real I think >> he offered Yeah, he >> and the Americans freaked out. >> Yeah, he he wanted to be, you know, another Israel. And maybe Trump wants that. I don't know. I don't know how he could manage that because bull work against China. >> Can I can I just throw What do you think >> on the table? My idea of what he wants. He wants to go into bed with Putin. >> Yeah. >> In order to replace the role that German capital played in selling Russian fossil fuels to Europe. So you know up until the war in Ukraine, Germany and Russia had a very interesting pact. Essentially Germany was getting natural gas for a bit >> and this was one half of the German industrial model. The other half was selling to the United States. >> Yeah. >> You know, net exports to the United States. Cheap energy, low cost from the Russian gas to the United States. I think he wants a deal with Putin whereby Trump that he's going to be selling he is going to take over the gas and the nuclear power inia and so on and sell it to the Europeans >> like Americans are. >> Yeah, that makes sense. Like I mean they're already we've already made >> and that will be you know and Putin will go along with that because it will be his way out of the you know the cold war the the isolation. >> That's interesting. I could see that happening. I mean, we're we're already we are already selling uh we're making up for the for the LNG that they're not getting to begin with. >> We're paying through the nose for your LNG. I mean, think about now in Greece, we have Kimberly Gilfoil, who's used to be married to one of his sons. >> Yeah. >> She's the US ambassador >> and was married before to Gavin Newsome. >> There you are. There you have it. I mean, amazing politic. My goodness, it's even uglier than Greek politics. So you know now they are building pipelines in the Gin Sea RC the sea between Greece and Turkey right >> when you say RC I'm like wait a minute >> yeah yeah you're aren't you >> yeah yeah >> we are we are relieving the Ottoman the Byzantine Empire >> I'm I'm joking I said my >> RC so you know they're building these pipelines that will go all the way to Muldova and to Ukraine now imagine you're an extraterrestri You're coming down to earth. You know there's a climate catastrophe breeding, >> right? Okay. They are not doing anything unlike the Chinese to decarbonize the economy. >> Yeah. >> And instead they make it worse because you know you have cheap Russian gas that could be feeding the whole of Europe. But no, they are stopping this and they are taking tankers that they are loading after spending a lot of energy to liquefy the natural gas that comes out of the fracking in New Mexico and Texas and so on. They put it in the ships >> all the way down the Atlantic. They go through the chip roll. They go all the way past, you know, Malta and Italy and the Peloponese and they go all and then they unload that and they push this after they dequify it. They gasify it again. They push it all the way to Ukraine. >> If you're an extinct, >> but that's economic activity, >> you know, but you know, breaking this window is economic. >> Exactly. No, but that's it's the same this is this is why capitalism is is is so suicidal. >> Yeah. >> Uh where it's it's uh you know, it's it's pushing towards ecological disaster. It's it's suicidal in every aspect of our lives and yet it just is mindboggling. People don't >> capitalist will sell you the rope with which you're going to hang him. >> Yes. Yeah. I love I love saying that. But uh the other side of the story uh with uh America redoubling their their efforts uh not into competing in R&D against China and trying to stake a claim over uh the renewable side in any meaningful capacity is to redouble on oil and gas. >> Yeah. >> Uh and it almost the way I describe it is almost like uh you know you're playing a board game, right? You're playing Monopoly and your competition is starting to buy everything, right? So you just flip the table and you say, "No, I'm not playing this anymore." And that's what I feel like is what uh the American move against China is because China is dominating the future of energy. It's it's definitely I don't know how how well the Western world can recover from that. Like I don't know how well the Western world could ever try and compete with that. And they're pretty honest about it. The Trump guys, I'll give them credit. They're very vulgar, but they're very honest in their in their vulgarity where I think it was Scott Besson who was at Davos who just said, "What are you stupid? you're buying all these uh you know you're buying these solar panels and you don't you don't have a a battery system you don't have a battery factory you're buying the batteries from China they control the the refinement and the procurement almost entirely right of these rare earth minerals that are uh necessary to build this new technology so every time you're moving in the direction of oh it was Lutnik again it wasn't Scott Essence sorry every time you're moving in the direction of renewable energies you're giving China more energy dominance over the world uh and and you're undermining uh the the oil. >> Give it to us. Give it to our >> buy. No, that's that's what they're saying. That's that but that's they're very honest about it. Um and I think that's the major reason as to why they're trying to uh secure all of the oil producers in the >> cited isn't it? Because I mean two points here. Firstly, the the Europeans have been dumb not for buying Chinese solar panels, but in 2000 2001, the top-notch solar panels were German and then and then we stopped investing in Germany in Europe. >> We just dropped the ball and the Chinese picked it up for years, >> right? It was the biggest growth sector even in America as well. And yet at a time 75% of the subsidies were going to the oil and gas industry and it was >> exactly >> instead of political corruption. >> It's not a plan. It's not, you know, some kind of economic blueprint. It's just corruption. It's like Epstein levels corruption. >> Um, and but the second point is that I don't think that their policy of essentially grabbing the fossil fuels of the world logically coherent because part of the MAGA movement, a substantial part of the MAGA is grounded in the Perian basin. It's grounded in fracking. Fracking is important. Yeah, I mean just watch landman. It's actually I like very much. >> Oh, my dad loves it too. I love it. It's really very good. But anyway, forget it. >> There's that rant I've seen in Lman where he talked about >> but you know the LG that we are buying in Europe comes from that right now if the price of oil falls below 62 63 6 they're gone. So you know they're grabbing the Venezuelan oil. What happens if they grab the Iranian oil and they push all this oil into the market? >> But they're not going to. There's no way because then the price of the oil barrel goes down so much that then these companies can't profit. >> So what is the point of grabbing the fossil fuels of the world unless you want to keep them from entering the market? >> Yeah. No, that's that's what it is. >> But they won't be able to keep it because you know even if the American army goes in there and takes all the Venezuelan oil and the Iranian oil to hold on to it, Chevron and Action will want and they have enough love if they can get it get it within the administration. Even Trump cannot stop them from doing that. So he's going to be turning the MAGA base against him. >> So I don't think they thought it through. I think it's just, you know, drill baby drill because it sounds good to to the base. The base doesn't realize that >> you think Chevron is going to stop them from releasing more barrels in the market. >> The Chevron will want to release more barrels. >> Oh, you think Chevron will >> because Chevron doesn't have that much of a stake in franking. It is the smaller independents that do and you know when the big fish um wants to get its feet into the Iranian or Venezuelan oil and you know they would play the game like Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia can sustain a lower price because they have volume but the permanent base independents that are the true fundamentally true believers in the Trumpist movement. >> Yeah. >> They will be pissed off. >> Yeah. He's going to cook Texas for sure. I mean it's it's Yeah. There's a lot of like uh I guess from what I've seen though, they're offering currently they're offering contracts to uh some of the smaller independent companies as opposed to Chevron and stuff in Venezuela. >> Um because it's like dirtier. It's harder. It's harder to extract. It's harder >> better at extracting the dirty stuff. >> Yeah. Not independence. Independence could do Franking. Yeah. Yeah, they cannot do they there's no way they can harvest the oil from Venezuela from the PS and all that. >> Yeah. Um and then it's also another lever against China as well who's still obviously reliant on oil and gas like they're not you know they're moving away from it but they still need it in the process of >> Yeah. of development. >> This year for the first time they reduced their consumption of oil and gas. >> Yeah. >> For the first time. I mean, but but that doesn't mean that there's still I mean there's still need for it, which is I think Trump's counter to the the nuclear trade option that China has, which they pulled a little bit in the beginning of the tariff wars when they said, "Okay, you want to have we're doing export controls." >> Yeah. >> And that was like that was something that was unheard of, I think, uh because that is the biggest weapon that they have at their disposal. If they could just like stop, you know, magnets and rare earth minerals from entering the American market, >> they won that war. >> Yeah. Exactly. All of a sudden, all of a sudden, uh, you know, America can't make their weapons any longer. Like it it just completely destroys American dominance. Yeah. >> They can't make drones. >> Well, China's making the drills anyway. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> But Yeah. So, so I think it's this is a a leverage point against that. If they ever tried that again, then America can be like, "Okay, no more oil for you. You will get no oil." Well, we were having this chat books yesterday, Hassan and I, when you were not watching. Um, and I said that to 2025 is going to go down in history for three monumental events. One, we already discussed Putin won the war in Ukraine, not against the Ukrainians, but against the Europeans and the Biden administration. Uh, secondly, uh, Trump won the commercial war, the trade war with Europe. >> Yeah. Uh and thirdly, we have a new game in town which is stable coins which is going to be the next uh source of financial instability in the world with the genius act. >> I'm that's like I'm so oblivious to the cryptocurrency. I don't know anything about it. So I don't >> Well, don't think of it as cryptocurrency. Think of it as the privatization of the dollar. >> Yeah, we're not we're not we're not talking Bitcoin and Ethereum. We're moving we're moving even further away uh from uh from the the gold the gold standard >> of course the gold standard I know I'm not saying that we need to go back to that. I'm not like a like a Ron Paul acolyte or something. I'm saying that what was that uh that move away was initially to to um basically make it so that the the confidence in the dollar was backed not by anything material but instead by the confidence that people have in I guess the the American military and now we're even further eroding that confidence and we're moving into something even more speculative something that's even more unstable ironically enough even if it's called stable coin. Well, we're saying this before. After 1971, American Germany, including the American military, were based on the fact that, you know, the United States could um make everybody else work very hard to produce real things. Yeah. >> That they would have to sell to Americans for dollars so that they could get the dollars to buy stuff like, you know, think not from America from but from, you know, copper or oil or whatever. >> So, that's the exorbitant privilege of of the dollar. Uh but at least the dollar was controlled by the federal government, the Federal Reserve. But now with stable coins, and by the way, if if you have if you have crypto enthusiasts and crypto libertarians and so on, don't stop throwing things at me for saying this because this is not about Bitcoin. It's not about Ethereum. I don't think these are macroeconomically significant. I'm quite happy for Bitcoin to to do its thing. But Tether and Circle, >> you know, this US denominated um uh cryptos, you if you are um you know a Bitcoiner, if you are if you're a crypto head, you should be angry with Tether, angrier than I am with them because what they're doing is they usurping the idea of crypto and you know distributed ledgers and decentralization and they're attaching it to fiat money which you should be against if you are a Bitcoiner. So, and and the the reason why they're doing it is because they're privatizing the dollar and they want to enhance the capacity of the federal government to increase its debt. You know, so if you're a libertarian, you know, you must think of the Genius Act that the Trump administration pushes through Congress as a major assault against your own ideology, not against my Marxism and so on. >> Yeah. Um because you know what Tether does is you give them dollars, they buy treasuries, short-term treasuries, and put them supposedly in some kind of safety box so that they can redeem your dollars, right? Uh now when 6 trillion is going to go in within the ex next 18 months, according to the US Treasury, according to Scott Bess, from plain vanilla bank accounts to Tether, that's 6 trillion new federal debt, which of course Trump is going to use in order to give more tax cuts to his mates, not to you folks. and and and okay so there is the increased mindn numbing levels of inequality from that but it's also the source of the next financial crisis because at some point when there is a run on tether when these people will do something nasty with tether because you know if you give a private company in El Salvador the right to print US dollars believe you me they will do something similar to what Leman brothers would do and then when there is a even a small run on tether people will realize that tether depends on treasuries And they know that Tether will try to sell said treasuries. So people will start dumping treasuries. So the value of treasuries will go down. And so the collateral which is up upkeeping the value of the stable coin. So doomloop between tether and treasuries. And who's going to save them from that? The Fed won't be able to because the Fed has been kept out of this game. You know, Congress has banned the Fed from regulating this. I think in the absence of alternatives though that isn't that isn't that what will force everyone to play ball no matter how much uh no matter how collapse is imminent because it's like the fear of uh devastating instability in the aftermath of that which is kind of also part of the reason why um a lot of people are forced to play ball with Donald Trump whenever he's doing these like tariff initiatives is uh even if it's self-destructive they have to play along with it because there is no there is no alternative currency >> they would play with bold with that but when whole thing when the bottom falls out of all that. Yeah. >> We're going to have a major catastrophic, you know, depression. And unfortunately, you know, I like Lenin saying that things have to get worse before they get better, but you know, the depression bred monsters. >> Yeah. >> And as Rosa Lux said from her prison cell, we Yeah. We have there's a fork on the road. It could be barbarism or socialism. Yeah. >> But it's not necessarily socialism. You can easily go to barbarism. You know this is what has happened in the past. >> This is what has happened in the past. And also >> if we're not organized >> and we don't that's my biggest fear is that we don't have the the the necessary infrastructure to organize in the direction of socialism because of the war that liberals have waged against their left flank against the socialists so successfully especially in western liberal democracies has made it so that there is no uh there is no political education there is no interest in organizing. Um people are satiated by uh the treats that they can get and they can't even imagine a world where they don't have that. I mean they saw like a snap we saw a snapshot of that with co which was nothing in comparison to what we're talking about right now. It was nowhere near the levels of the great depression. And even then what did the government do? They had to come in and and try to give the the world's consumption engine some some liquid some some cash so they could continue purchasing things so that the entire global economy doesn't collapse. Mhm. >> But even then, the the limited amount of restrictions that Americans experience as far as like, you know, having to show a vaccine card or something when they're going to get jalapeno poppers at Applebee's, that was so much. I mean, that was so devastating >> that uh they wanted to rise up in arms almost. So, >> that's right. But they didn't organization before the depress. The depression will breed monsters again. >> Yeah. >> That's why this is the time to organize. >> Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, I'm I'm trying to do my best, but I feel like it's quite difficult, especially in this age of disinformation as well. Um, we can only try >> and you know, trying is fun. Let's make it fun as well. I mean, you you seem to be having a good relationship with all these tens of thousands of people. Um, and get them to to organize something in their in their own neighborhood. >> Oh, no. That's what I that's what I do all, you know, with their neighbors and, you know, the local communities. uh and something that aims at ownership at collective ownership. This is this is the only thing you know even if you manage to tax the rich by another 1% 2% 3% that's not going to change really. >> Yeah. >> The only thing is going to change is to reconfigure property rights. >> Yeah. I mean in order to it's ironic because like in order to save liberalism they have to do social democracy but they don't even want to do that. They consider that to be radical anymore. >> They can't even do this anywhere. You see once upon a time under FDR in the United States, Billy Brandt in Germany in the 1960s and '7s, uh Harold Wilson in Britain in again the 60s and '7s, there was still a clear demarcation of power between in industrial capital and organized labor. So you know if you were a politician a social demog new dealer you got elected and you brought the captains of industry capitalist trade unions around the table and you cut a deal and you said to the capitalist part of your surplus value will go to the workers another part will come will fund social security food stamps whatever correct you could do that I mean it was easy but it was doable you could imagine >> but there was also a lot more pressure external pressure from the labor side that allowed that toact to be justified to the captains the titans of industry >> that's right it's in your There's otherwise you'll have to suffer long strikes and you will lose money >> or they'll kill you. >> Well, okay. Loss of income is worries them more than >> That's true. That's true. >> These guys are more afraid of becoming workers, becoming laborers than they are of dying. >> That's right. Uh but you know after financialization power shifted from the captives of industry to the bankers and now it has shifted from the bankers to big tech. So can you imagine putting Elon Musk and three unionists around the same table? I mean what are they going to discuss? There's nothing to discuss. >> Yeah. >> Nothing to discuss. Okay. So this idea of social democracy being the you know the social democratic or new dealer leadership being the referee between capital and labor that's gone. What is also gone is liberalism. The idea of the liberal individual. You know, when you have AI bots essentially hijacking your mind, you know that that you know, infusing desires into you as a result of work that it makes you do horrible when you're posting things and things stuff on on the internet. So, liberalism is gone. Social democracy is gone. The only thing that is left is uh the Marxist left. >> Yeah. That's why I I go back to the to the Epstein stuff because it's like this is one of the things that like should unite. I feel like it's more of a it's the closest expression to like class solidarity that the that even the lump and pearls and the reactionaries have ever experienced because they also all believe like oh the the international pedophilic cabal is real right and then all of a sudden you have this uh this this revelation that like maybe the Alex Jones Alex Jones of the world weren't so wrong about their initial analysis on this part and yet all Elon Musk has to do is tweak the algorithm a little bit and just pump pump it full of AI I and now I'm seeing on my own timeline so many people get duped by fake posts. So many people, you know what happened to me yesterday? What happened to you yesterday? I get I I got from the BBC uh a very nice polite email. I I I appear on the BBC quite often >> and they said, "Oh, Janice, uh we saw this talk you gave on Venezuela and Iran and it was very interesting. Can we interview tomorrow live on BBC television?" >> Mhm. >> And I clicked on the link. It wasn't me. It was a deep fake of mine. That's crazy. >> Yeah. And and I had to write back and say, "Look, I'm glad you enjoyed it, but that wasn't me. It was a deep fake." And and they said, "Oh, but it was so cultured and so well put." >> You should you should have been like, "Yeah, that was me. I I got you. I got you." >> No, but that's that's terrifying. >> It is terrifying. And it's terrifying when they when it says things that I could have said. >> Yeah. >> Because then it's so easy to slip into the narrative something that I would never have said. That's defamation. Yeah. Right. >> They can present me as anti-Semitic. present because everything else is something I would have said. >> Yeah. But the reason why I'm also pointing to this is because like this should be a moment of radicalization for a lot of people and yet they're so busy going back to old narratives. Like I see these guys were very openly talking about, you know, trafficking minors. They were using the term like minors, young women, all this stuff very openly. And yet I see so many people go, "Oh, QAnon was real. Pizzagate was real." They actually they're hyperfocusing on like the the the four different emails where they bring up the the term pizza and I'm like like you're it's insane. Like they're talking about torturing uh people and stuff like that. Like they they don't need to hide and use code words to say pizza. It's very clear that they're openly speaking openly speaking about their desires in general. And yet people find themselves in in these uh in these different uh narratives rather than uh rather than hyperfocus on the the actual uh evil acts that are taking place cuz they're so malleable. They're so persuadable especially with AI and especially with social media. And I think Elon knows that and that's why he's that's why even though he's been mentioned in the Epstein files uh quite a bit. I don't know if you saw he was uh begging to go to the island. Insane. Uh and yet they can get away with releasing this information because they know that the public is not going to respond in the way that they normally should. >> It's, you know, another version of uh Steve Bannon's flood the zone. I mean, if you if you dump so much [ __ ] onto people, after a while, they won't even smell it. >> Yeah. Exactly. And I mean, that's what Trump has done as well. That's like Trump's success in many ways is he's such a doineering force and it's like there's almost like outrage fatigue where you're like, what am I supposed to get mad at? Is it Cuba? Is it Venezuela? >> Yeah, he moved very quickly. >> Yeah. Is it is it Greenland? >> That's that's the geopolitical version of flood zone. You know, he abducts Maduro on the same day he talks about Greenland. So before we even got a chance to discuss the abduction of the head of state, >> uh we are already wearing about Greenland. >> Yeah. And um and the same goes for domestic affairs as well. It's like ICE IC is in Minneapolis. then they're going to move into another uh city and and the people are too divided to to organize a significant response except for the fact that these neighborhoods are actually getting together. There is like definitely a lot of decentralized movements in general that uh that uh organize at the community level and do a pretty good job of like I saw it in Minneapolis. I saw it personally these guys are super well organized. >> I hope that they go beyond organizing defensively. >> Yeah. and they become a movement for progressive change. >> Yeah. No, that's that's exactly what I'm thinking as well, which is that like >> Have you thought of running in elections? >> No. >> Well, why not? >> I don't I because >> look, it's a horrible thing to do. I've done it. I can confirm that it sucks. >> Yeah. >> Big time. But it's a dirty job. Someone's got to do it. >> I know. But I >> these people have to vote for someone. >> I >> What are you going to say to them when the midterms come? >> Well, >> don't vote. >> No. No. Of course not. But who are you going for? For the Democrat who wants to >> Well, I have my people. That's why I'm >> Yeah. Okay. You have your people, but not everywhere. >> That's true. But my goal is to try to like my >> And why should these people have their lives destroyed by being elected and not yours? >> Well, it's not even about like my life being destroyed necessarily, but cuz my life gets destroyed all the time doing what I'm doing anyway. I mean, >> come on. >> No, no. I'm able to >> You're having fun here. >> No, I know. I'm able to overcome it regardless because I have like built this uh this resilient base of support and and I have uh ways of working around it. You know, I get banned on Twitch, I go to YouTube. But my point is there's a finite amount of time and and energy and effort that I can spend on this and I feel like this is how I can maximize my output. >> Sure. um doing agitative propaganda I think and also uh creating a community that that is then going out and participating in their own local elections as many of people in my community have already uh to to success. At some point you have to go to graduate to the the level where you take their voice and you put it into some kind of um assembly um some kind of congress maybe a state one maybe a federal one >> I don't know I I I know a guy >> get ready >> I know a guy his name is Jen Wager he tried to do that and he failed spectacularly so >> well failure is okay >> I mean in 1905 the Russian the first Russian revolution failed and it gave was uh Sergey Eisenstein's McLimson movie the battleship of Tenmpkin which is was an important you know ne first step towards the the real thing. >> Well since then his methods have changed. I feel like he's now he's I mean you might like it actually. He he he's big into uh realignment with uh with right-wingers in general like with Tucker and and all No. >> I'm not I'm not >> that's not me mate. >> Okay. Well >> I do not realign with Tucker. >> You say >> I'm No. I I want to speak honestly and respectfully to the victims of these people. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. I we're we're on the same page. I uh as Michael Brooks used to say, uh be ruthless to systems, be kind to individuals. I >> suffer from the system >> so much so that they have actually become part of it. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I I cuz like I think at the end of the day that discontent and that anger that they feel that resentment that they feel that that materializes in like you know fascist expression that discontentment is coming from the the material inefficiencies that they experience. And therefore if you isolate that and if you talk to them directly about those problems and and explain to them the the real pathway to solve it, they're not they're not going to lean into the the culture wars. You know what I mean? If you give if you give people, it's not even a zero- sum game, but if you give people the two options where you're like, "Okay, you can keep dominating trans people or or Guatemalan people that are like literally doing your landscaping and are the backbone of like the uh the productive forces we have or the agricultural output that we have that that put food on your table and you don't have healthare or you have healthcare, but you don't get that. >> You don't get that uh uh moment of of of feeling satisfied because you've dominated someone lesser than you. That makes you feel more powerful. I think most people are going to go with material improvements. Indeed, I I I was campaigning in some election in Britain some years ago and uh I was in the north of England which has shifted from being leftwing to being ultraright fascistic. >> Yeah. >> Oh, you mean like the labor enclaves in the north? >> That's right. The so-called red wall. >> Yeah. And I gave a talk and there was this elderly woman who came to talk to me afterwards and she said, "Look, I like what you say, but I can't possibly agree with you because you keep believing that migration is not a problem. It is a problem. Next door to me in my block of flats, my apartment block, I have these is a small flat and is inhabited by four Romanian boys. Now, each one of them has a job. So together they have an income that outbids any local renter, any family that wants to rent that apartment. >> Yeah. >> And this sounds reasonable. So I could have dismissed her as a bigoted woman or I could ask her more questions. Like for instance, can you tell me the history of the building? And she said it used to be a council house. >> Social housing. Yeah. >> Right. And what is it now? Well, that soldiers and what who does it belong to? She said, "Nobody knows some kind of hedge fund." >> Mhm. >> Said, "Okay, now tell me. Let's say that I wave a magic wand and those four Romanian boys go back to Romania. How's this going to help you? Yeah, because you know the fact is that it will still be owned by this. Maybe they will demolish it and create a shopping mall or something out of it, but the housing problem is not going to be solved. Maybe we should consider the fact that you know weak people have been turned against one another. You against the Romanians and so on by those who profit from both of you. >> Yeah. >> And you know she listened. It wasn't that I was being smart. It's because I wouldn't have thought of that had I not asked her the question. So tell me the history of your building. >> Yeah. >> So ask people the history of their buildings, of their neighborhoods, of this before you articulate an argument to try to convince them otherwise. >> Yeah. No, absolutely. That's what I try to do. And I try to speak to people at their own level like or or speak to their immediate desires. >> I know you do. But this was my message to these folks. But um we've we've also briefly talked about uh entreism versus third party >> um last night privately, not on camera. And this is something that I've been thinking about quite a bit as well. This is also uh often an issue. And the way I see it, uh Americans do not have any class consciousness whatsoever. Um they have problems, they experience those problems, but they have no uh productive output. They have no productive outlet to to address those problems at all. So they focus on anyone that that leans into their anger and resentment. And the right is very good at leaning into that anger and resentment and then redirecting it to other, you know, marginalized populations or or people that have the same class interest as they do, right? In the case of the Romanian versus the elderly woman like you described. So the way I see it, uh, there's only two major parties in the country right now. And my solution is not to like overtake the Democratic party and like turn it into like a communist party or something. I don't think that's ever going to happen. It's a it's a you know it's a bourgeoa capitalist liberal party and it has played a very important role in identifying and and neutralizing any sort of uh more radical left positions out there. Um, having said that, it does still have a an election mechanism and it still has a a massive platform in general, like a it has a massive podium in general. And I do think that liberals, self-identifying liberals, self-identifying liberals actually have more of a a socialist tendency than they think they do. >> Mhm. Um, and the way to open that conversation up to them is by running uh socialist alternative candidates within the Democratic Party infrastructure. >> Well, the DSA does. >> Yes, exactly. So, I I do agree with that system. This doesn't mean that you shouldn't attempt to to design a third party on the on the sidelines as well. Um, having said that, I don't know if the opportunity for for a third party viability is there right now considering how many people still self ide as liberals. >> Look, I we're on the same page. Starting a third party now would be suicide. >> Yeah. >> Uh, you can see it with the Greens, Stein, and so on that it it really doesn't have the dynamic to change the scenery. Uh, but I think the the the answer lies in between. So you and I were discussing yesterday the unique opportunity Bernie Sanders had in 2016 to start the party then because he had run within the Democratic party because he had had hundreds of thousands of volunteers because he had the he created the infrastructure he created the political revolution right using his terms and at that point he could have started the third party that would be viable >> but that by not doing it that opportunity was killed. So you have to start again as you say like Manny, like AOC, like others go through the party um if a figure like Manny >> and then not allow them not allow them to be neutered either cuz like the political machine does actually chop away their their radical tendencies if they even existed to begin with or if it >> Well, that's why you need you need the socialists within the Democratic party to be uh better organized amongst themselves to have more more you know factional factional Yeah, like the Trumpist did. The Trumpist did take over the republic. Of course, they had huge capitalist help, you know, >> they're they're directionally aligned. It's just more capitalism or >> That's right. But, you know, so your work is is much what you need to do is much harder, but you can do it. You you can emulate what Bernie did, but with the intention of stepping out and taking the new structures that you have created within the Democratic party with you if you hit a brick wall and again the national committee chooses Trump over you. >> Yeah. I mean >> or somebody like but at that point uh at that point there is a a much more robust uh uh pressure mechanism that can engage in in labor militancy. Like that's that's a very different that's a very different environment to be in right now. >> New kind of labor militancy. >> Yeah. That's a very different environment than the one that we're in right now where like all of these from what I've seen maybe I'm too optimistic but from what I've seen you got the barbers and the Deborah, white wine moms >> Mhm. >> that are coming from the suburbs uh you know accountants, lawyers, teachers, nurses that that normally are just like straight blue no matter who voters that are very frustrated with the way things are going. They're not experiencing like absolute uh economic uh death and destruction in the way that we've seen in the past that has led to more radical movements growing in the country. But they are frustrated by the instability and I think like those people can also uh be convinced of uh the the viability of this socialist alternative. >> Yeah. No, utterly utterly. >> Yeah. I agree entirely. >> All right. Well, it's late. I want to Yeah. I am an old man. We leave you with the youth. >> The young with the youth. Thank you for having me. >> This was incredible. >> It was great fun. >> Yeah. >> It was a good way to end a very long day. >> Oh yeah. You got to after after talking to tech executives about the importance of AI and and data collection, you got to you got to come back to Earth a little bit >> and biting my tongue most of the day. >> Yeah. >> It's very badly injured from all this biting. >> But thank you. >> Thank you for coming on. This was incredible.