He got his start as a white Black Panther, as a white Jewish Black Panther. What? Yeah. Okay. You obviously know about like, you know, the SDS kids and the Trots that became neocons and and [ __ ] like that. There were so many people in Trump 1 who got [ __ ] canned instantly because there was an article in the Daily Beast about them like Yep. concocting some weird speedball with like Sealis and Gratom and and like driving a car into a woman's house even though they were nominated to be surgeon general or something. Are we still playing neoliberalism versus social democracy? I think we have to nationalize like everything. Welcome to Doomscroll. I'm your host Joshua Cinderella. My guest is Felix Beerman, a co-host of the Chapo Trap House podcast. The most common refrain on every left-wing podcast is, "What are we doing wrong? Why is the left losing?" We're here today uh just past the threshold of a pretty historic election. And I finally get to ask the question, why is the left winning? The way I always answered that question, uh why are we losing? It's kind of the same way I would answer the usually similarly paced question, you know, what's wrong with young men? I would always say nothing. They're perfect. But now I've been vindicated. That's my next question actually. Yeah. So, uh, exit polling seems to indicate that young men, uh, 18 to 29 had a plus 40 margin in favor of Zoron. Uh, 2024, we had basically a year of discussion that like young men were not savable, that electoral politics was foregone, they swung heavily towards Trump in the previous election. uh how do we explain the difference in these two outcomes? I was kind of fascinated by like the year-long uh self flagagillation in liberal quarters about young men specifically. I get like I it's not just specific to this election, but like really for the last 10 years I would get uh vicarious humiliation listening to people talk about this. like it's, you know, everyone sounds like an [ __ ] when they talk about this. Obviously, um the right-wing like, you know, you need you need to ration your jerking off in this way and like do this and either like go to a company and sweep the floor to show them that you're a hard worker or um you know fig figure out the genetic composition of their board of directors. Like that's obviously silly, but I would I would also get just like flushes of humiliation when I would read like a uh a more like laughter liberal person trying to address it in like 2017 or 2018 or now for that matter. Yeah. Where it's like, "Listen up guys. Here's how I went from being insecure to [ __ ] my wife." Do you remember the Good Man project? What is a good man project? Oh god. There was a lot of like um stuff like this in in 2014. It was sort of a relic of the 2014 internet. Oh, okay. That's old school. But it was he I feel bad like bringing him up because he's like he he's like kind of a [ __ ] up guy. But Hugo Schwitzer, okay, it was his thing. Um and it reminded me so much of that. But that this past year of it uh since the election, it was it was so weird to me because it went from this one like this one extreme of like young men are like [ __ ] lost. They've never been this stupid which like to some extent maybe. I don't [ __ ] know. Mhm. to like no young men are the only arbiters of culture and everything we do it it has to appeal to them. Yeah. we have to completely reorientate everything so it appeals specifically to them. And it's so antithetical to really I think anyone who's been a 19 18 19 year old man or known them I I mean it was especially strange after like you know there was a proof of concept for um a political movement that uh just spped up young men. Are you thinking uh specifically of an old man from Vermont or what's the No, no. I I I I was I was actually thinking of uh the Beta Aurora campaign. Okay. No, no. I mean, yeah, like you could say Bernie or you could just broadly say like V vulgar Berniem. Yeah. Yeah. Uh Yeah. No, I mean I think it makes you insane to remember everything that any everyone has ever said online in a in an attempt to like, you know, catch them out. But it is it is sort of funny for us specifically after like years of articles about like this is so bad because like it appeals to young men. Yep. Yep. Like now. Yeah. But but I mean at the same time, okay, so young men supported Zoron by like these gigantic margins. Uh young people in general in these elections, they swung like massively. As usual, young women vote like more uh you know, generally blue Mhm. than young men in a lot of instances. But it is before that it was like okay we have to reorient it reorient culture and politics and the way that we talk even in private to appeal to these guys because there's a there is like a complete right-wing cultural dominance and it's going to be like this for 20 years and so okay now is it just over it just ended after a year? I mean, there's been an enormous amount of media attention on this particular topic. And I think if I recall the numbers, these are rough, but off the top of my head, it's like young men swung 15 points towards the right, young women swung 11, right? And you hear just orders of magnitude more conversation about young men. Um, and what we're talking about is a four-point differential here. So I wonder if there's something advantageous for the liberal media framing it as being a specifically uh generational but also a gendered issue. So it it seems to avoid I think the uh the elephant in the room which is like the working class coalition that went towards the right. Um and what I've tried to push I think unsuccessfully is that young people are being proletarianized. We have an eroding middle class and so their vote is actually just in the same kind of gradation shifting with working people. Yeah. Yeah. I mean and it that should be the most obvious thing in the world to people that like you only have so many years where you can go okay imagine when you you do have a stake in this. Imagine when you do have a family. Imagine when you do own property. You know how many years can go by where they're not that doesn't happen for them? Yeah. Yeah. I am trying to imagine that not successfully. But on the topic of analytics, uh I found myself thinking yesterday that statistically, right, we're talking about this swing from 2024 to 2025. There must have been not an insignificant number of people who voted for Trump and then a year later voted for Zoron. Oh, yeah. No. Yeah. Absolutely. How do we [ __ ] explain that? I think I think I think probably the same way that you explained the multiple uh JJ Jones Trump districts in Virginia. Um, everyone who has won a presidential election since 2016, they have they have said to themselves, the fact that we won at all is a vindication of doing things the way the exact way we want to do them 100% of the time. Yeah. and uh this [ __ ] like cost of living election change, none of that matters. They like us personally and warts and all. And for you know Trump won that meant like after after like uh repeated failures with their legislative agenda that like they they thought they could coast with you know the administration not really being about anything after about after about Charlottesville. They thought they could have three years of just um you know, okay, we're out of agenda. We we we got slaughtered in the midterms, but there's enough like leaks and recrimination and uh backbiting that Yeah. people will find this fun enough to vote for it again. Sure. Sure. Uh for Brandon, obviously that manifested in its own way. Uh you know, people people love this measured deal making where I'm never really capable of making a deal. They love um they love this like zombie scoop Jackson foreign policy consensus. Yeah. Yeah. The polls I mean everyone thinks the polls are cocked but now Trump too I mean obviously Trump too is like a different beast than Trump one. Yes. That's what I was going to ask. Yeah. It's quite different. It's quite different but it's also like very Brandon. It it's horri it's you know horrible. Uh there are horrific policy decisions every day uh that that I think are um you know unambiguously worse than Trump won. Yeah. But the sort of posture and rhythm of the White House, especially the longer it goes on, it it is very branded. Yeah. Yeah. They have more of a reason to go, okay, this is a vindication of us because, you know, technically they are like the first Republicans to win the popular vote and you know, however many years, I think 20 years, but I mean, cost of living election against the ill-prepared and not incredibly well-liked uh very put upon VP for like the scenile pants [ __ ] president who the deep state and the media expended the last of their powers protecting until they couldn't anymore. Yeah. Yeah. there there's no like awareness that okay in 2021 Trump was on his hands and knees begging to be allowed to have Facebook again and at his lowest point they thought they could excise him from the party and then you know price like inflation um problems with uh price index everywhere multiple failures in foreign policy and just the reality of a chief executive who could not comm communicate his ideas. I guess they just think that stuff is like of ext of no importance to to their electoral fortunes that they that like he he got out of that rut just like through his own wits by doing the same stuff he always does. Right. Right. I mean now like they're doing the same thing that Biden did where they're going actually the economy is really good but it's not helping that people won't talk about it. Yeah. Right. Right. Well, some portion of this uh enormous swing towards Trump in 2024 is uh I think there's like a general few points correction for every incumbent across the world just based on inflation and dissatisfaction. Um so his enormous win is maybe proportionately a little bit smaller and people are saying a similar thing about Zoron. Now, what portion of this ground swell uh enormous showing of support for Zoron do you think is a backlash or a vote uh of dissatisfaction with the current Trump administration? It's difficult to say. I mean, you almost wish that Cuomo could drop out of the general just so you could get a better Yeah. And as much as we like him, uh that Curtis Leewell was replaced with like a more representative Republican. Yeah. Uh so so we could get a better appraisal of that. Um I think I think it would be fair to read to read into it that way. I do certainly think that like there is a broad anger amongst the Democratic base at not even the failures of the Democratic party but like just the complete lack of effort from from the moment uh from the moment the election was called. Yeah. And um that's explicitly their strategy too, right? To the James Carville do nothing. Yeah. Yeah. It's I mean I get it to some extent, but also like people can hear you, you know? It it reminds me when like it reminds me when they do the same [ __ ] thing where they go, "We're going to appeal to like all the [ __ ] idiots in America by saying you could buy a big truck because of our policies." And it's like they can hear you calling them idiots. Yeah. Yeah. They may be idiots, but like they they know they're being called that. They know they're saying, "Hey, uh this appeals to these dumb dums." So, we're talking about backlash to this uh Trump administration. There is, however, uh Zoron as the individual who has unique appeal in his message, in his media outreach. What do you think about him specifically that is resonating with voters as compared to other comparable candidates in the past? Um, he seems to be I mean more appealing than like an AOC right now. His approval ratings are are higher. He's more popular with people. Oh yeah, absolutely. And I mean, not to take anything away from AOC's victory in 2018, but like that was her very enthused base going against like a very non-enthused um base that didn't show up at all for Crowley. Yeah. Yeah. it would, you know, I don't there's nothing wrong with taking advantage of low turnout to get in there and um you know, that's well within the rules, but this was I mean this was just like a ground swell uh compared to that. Um there's a lot more people. Yeah. Um but no, I I He has a lot going for him. He is probably like the single best communicator. uh you know in American left of center politics. Oh, he crushed in those debates. Yeah, that was Yeah. Um it was a pretty much perfectly run campaign. Their communication style is great. I think there's a bunch of marginal things that really help him out. In addition to that, though, um obviously he's charismatic. Obviously, he's a great communicator, but he also never condescends to people. And I think that's a huge thing. There are like goofy like memes and [ __ ] around the campaign. Uh but he's never he's never like doing doing this like hey I'm in on the joke guys thing. He's still talking about his you know his you know five main issues all the time. He keeps hitting on those and he never like he he always gives whoever is listening a chance to rise to the occasion. I don't think that like I if you take like a representative uh sample size of voters anywhere that all of them are going to want understand like 100% of the things you say off the bat if you don't you know adul adulterated a little bit but they can also tell when they're being condescended to. I do think I think that paid off in the primary. That paid off mainly with like the globalized uh controversy. He very easily could have done like the Reverend Wright playbook and like thrown someone under the bus or like, okay, I was I was two years younger, you know. Mhm. But um he did just like kind of ask his voters and his potential voters to trust him uh let him explain it and it did pay off. I I do think that um with a few things around like is Israel stuff specifically um since the general he he has aired on the side of caution more so than he did during the primary. He st he still like stood on on his words and uh gave an affirmative defense of something in a way that like no elected in American politics uh that I can think of recently has done besides like Rashida Tlet. Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. the uh on the topic of Israel, one of the theories, and I think this is rather compelling, is that uh in in the early side of his campaign, a lot of the establishment attacks onto him specifically focused on Israel and uh they fell flat because it's a really unpopular topic. Yeah. And so it had this effect of like actually backfiring against these establishment critiques when he would like step out in front of people and be like, "Uh, I'm not going to visit Israel. I'm going to stay here in New York City, for example. That was incredibly smart. That's that was one of the like if there's any like obviously it's a combination of things, but if you could say like any single sentence or phrase like won him the primary, it might as well be that. That was [ __ ] brilliant. Yeah, I do think that like there there was just like a an arrogance not just from Quomo and uh the sort of like disorganized and then organized too hastily antisuron forces. There was an arrogance but also just like a again a lack of awareness. They thought maybe more so hoped that like you know this is an aberration things will return to mean it will be 2003 again where like you you this is this will go back to being a third rail we'll reelectrify it we just have to paint this guy is incredibly scary but something that I think is incredibly interesting is I saw I saw someone like uh they did an exit poll and someone I follow that quote tweeted it because the the person quoted in the exit poll said like, "Hey, I love I love both these guys. I love Quomo and Zoro." It's funny, but that there there's more people like that than people who are like negatively polarized against Zoro. Interesting. Yeah. And the fact that like that, you know, Cuomo thought he could he could run like a smear campaign, it took this I don't know. I think his candidacy was kind of doomed no matter what because it was just so arrogant and just he did everything short of just saying like okay [ __ ] like give me this job so I can run for president when I'm 85 right but it you know the the voters um for however much they've moved on Israel in a lot of things and however dissatisfied they are with uh party leadership they still thought well Okay, this Zoron guy is a Democrat. Like, why why the [ __ ] are you say why are you saying he did 9/11? Right. No, I mean that's a good point. He was on the Democratic uh ticket. Um in on this topic of the uh establishment critiques uh against Zoron. Some of the things that were maybe more effective that he had to spend a lot of time talking to the media about and apologizing in many cases was uh previous comments about defund the police. M um what were what do you think was some of the major points of friction uh in winning people over some of the more like let's say less popular uh activist demands from a few years ago? Well, um I will say this, it kind of helped him that like half of like prominent Democrats did that for two months and then like never talk about it again. Yeah. Like they didn't own the Kent Cloff [ __ ] Yeah. I I mean my favorite campaign in history is Camala's aborted prim campaign in uh I mean it didn't even really make it to 2020 her 2019 campaign. No. No, it literally didn't make it to 2020. Yeah. Yeah. Her and Bato were fascinating to me. uh Bato was trying to do this like maximalist social liberalism thing where he's just there's not really any concept of anything about healthcare or or or or um you know anything anything to do with like prices any late you know no mention of card check but he's going he's going out there and going okay we're going to take all the guns and like [ __ ] take tax breaks away from churches which like okay But you're you're running in Texas after this, right? Um and Camala, it was she she was one of the many candidates that like, you know, latched on to Medicare for all. You know, people forget Pete Buddha Judge did that. A lot of [ __ ] people didn't. They all had their own branded version of it. Yeah. But she he seized on like the left liberal lane. Um, I think she had a lot of staffers and Warren had this problem too that were uh Twitter power users and and they that's why um my my favorite moment from her campaign. Uh the one of the only debates she was at was when she she asked everyone on stage, will you join my pledge in asking for like social media companies to ban Trump? And even Warren was like, what the [ __ ] are you talking about? Wow. Okay. She tried she tried to sell shirts that had the had the words dude has to go because that was like how she branded the policy. Yeah. Okay. But I mean like you know if I if only like DSA endorsed candidates in 2020 were like doing stuff like that it'd be one thing but it really like everyone kind of made an [ __ ] out of themselves. Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean it really is hard to uh underexaggerate just the degree to which like this kind of uh militant activist rhetoric was predominant everywhere. People are maybe half jokingly saying that woke is back. Is it? I mean I don't really think it went away. Um it certainly like did not does not have anywhere near the cultural power that it did at one point. I mean, uh, I do think that was a kind of a traumatic thing for a lot of, uh, liberals in the wake of the election and inauguration. this idea that articles could no longer, you know, affect real world events, right? which right you know after Trump won that would be a horrifying thing to face if that that's what you were expecting because there were so many people in Trump won who got [ __ ] canned instantly because there was an article in the Daily Beast about them like y you know concocting some weird speedball with like sealis and gradom and and like driving a car into a woman's house even though they were nominated to be surgeon general or something. Yeah. And they they would always apologize for [ __ ] They were very like like they they were obviously out there and like you know love triggering people but they also there was this weird element of going and by the way actually we're not racist at all which is so weird to think about now but you know even if articles do not have anywhere near the same power and uh you know the this Trump one style of like streaming service friendly wokeness is uh not vogue anymore. There's still, you know, a shitload of people still went to the women's marches. A shitload of people still voted for like all types of [ __ ] shitty midterm candidates in 2018. Uh you know, all that money that went to uh what was her name? Amy McGrath. Mhm. Mhm. I What did she get? something like 300 million, something insane to to run against Mitch McConnell by like 18 points. You know, the people who gave her money, they're still out there. Yeah. Yeah. Uh they didn't just die. I I do think that like maybe when all this is said and done that maybe some of this will have been kind of positive for a lot of otherwise. uh you you know party loyalist de liberal democrats. Yeah. Um I think the experience of seeing like no article can get you in trouble I if you're Trump or Trump's people and when they think you're upset they're just going to keep like rubbing it in and like nothing is bad enough to to to give anyone pause. I think it did make enough of them go, "Well, okay, what the [ __ ] Okay, we love Jay Jones." I mean, I've tried to approach this on the podcast previously, maybe unsuccessfully, but I think there's a kind of reckoning on the left liberal side right now that like there was a I think faulty assumption that political power was invested in society's storytellers that like if you could reprimand someone through articles and press or on Rachel Matto for example, like eventually that this was like the lever that led to political change and it seemingly Like now I mean it's quite obvious and to anyone on the left it has always been obvious but like that lever is not attached to [ __ ] like it's not attached to actual political power and so there is uh power in the franchise there's power in the workplace but like saying stuff uh doesn't doesn't shape the material world um and I guess part of the election of Zoron is like it is kind of relocating politics in material conflict or the contestation for material resources. I do think though like and I I've I've been incredibly interested in the trajectory of specifically like left liberals uh people who like they voted every midterm. Yep. Their trajectory since Biden's inauguration. I think you're right that like yeah that the reele the reemergence and re-election of Trump is wasn't as huge affecting thing for them but I think of underrated importance Israeli snipers like you know shooting toddlers in 2021 I I don't really think there's like any real value in prognostications most of the time with politics because you you know you don't really get anything for being right. Uh but I do remember during like the first iteration of like the resistance um and the the trial period of Hillary's 2016 campaign. Um you know and obviously we all had like uh ideological and stylistic reasons for why we found it grading and like offensive. I mean, Hillary's 2008 campaign, the fact that she came out and did like that Instagram infographic [ __ ] in 2016 after that was one of the most like one of the most cynical things I've ever [ __ ] seen in my life. But there was a real like a real demand for like that type of um Democratic party friendly idpole that otherwise would be like you know it just 5 years prior would have been considered like just totally unsailable to the general public. But I always thought at that time like there's such a huge contradiction here with foreign policy in general with the Democratic Party, but especially with Israel, you know, because it it like you just have to play like one thing that like Ovadia Yousef has ever said. M you just have to, you know, take take one, you know, one [ __ ] statement from like, you know, whoever the deputy mayor of law is, and it's the most racist thing you've ever heard. Uh I certainly wasn't optimistic about it being such a contradiction that it would it would cause a fracture and it would it would make people who I think were totally earnest in their beliefs a lot of them actually go okay [ __ ] this all these people I thought I liked they were wrong about this they lied to me but that did happen in a lot of places a lot of uh you know a lot of people that, you know, previously had some igniminy for for being resistance figures online. They've really um they've really made a sea change and they've kind of acted they've shown a lot of backbone and principle. Um, and to that end, I do think that 2021 was hugely important because, you know, I'm sure all these people knew that like Israel does horrible things. The American military does horrible things. America has this huge moral stain on us, not just through our own actions, but through the very, very specific things that Israel does that we specifically make happen, make possible. Yeah. But they had never seen firsthand footage quite like that. And it was also the most contemporary like a lot of people like they got put on a canary mission. Uh students, doctors, all types of people. Uh they just got like uh professionally blackled. Uh careers ruined, lives destroyed. And I don't think that like otherwise un uninitiated people had seen that happen right in front of them before. Should we maybe define what Canary Mission is if people are not familiar? That's a good idea. Yeah. Yeah. Uh Canary Mission it is a project of the Israeli lobby and it is is it's essentially a blacklist, right? It it's a blacklist of um usually students, usually pretty young students. Um like college freshmen in some cases. Yeah, I know at one point there had been high schoolers on there. Wow. But yeah, college freshmen, like 18, 19 year olds, but also like just people with normal jobs. and Canary Mission which is run by uh Adam Milstein not run by but like he's one of the he's a sort of a Israeli lobby super donor and this is one of his pet projects um it will put their name where they live their occupation where you can call their boss or their you know administrators at their school and it you know even when even way before you know Elon Twitter I would try to get people to like report it because it is a doxy account. Like doxing is against the rules. It's literally that. Yeah. Yeah. It would never [ __ ] go away. Yeah. It would ne like that's the that's the goal, right? Is to basically make it impossible to hire these people by flooding the internet with like talking [ __ ] about any uh activist, you know, like student activist. I think that for a lot of left libs they they conceptually knew that, you know, maybe they they they had some vague recollection of what happened to Norm Finkelestein or something. Yeah. But they had never seen it play out in front of them like that. Yeah. In real time. Yeah. And and I mean also just like the the very bold lying about Shireen Abu Aklay in the same year, I it it set the stage for what I think is one of the most surprising events in my lifetime in this country, which is um the the American response, the American public's response, right, to to to all of this. Crystal Ball said something that's stuck with me. Uh I think this was a few months ago now, but she said that Americans are maybe not necessarily voting specifically on the topic of Israel, but the stance a candidate takes on Israel is indicative of where their allegiances lie on every other issue. And so counter signaling or any anti-establishment candidate that counters signals Israel's war on Gaza, um those people just win popular support by like miles and miles. Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean I I think that like you you don't have to you don't have to be incredibly well read or have some super sophisticated view of the world to be aware of the basic fact that everything that Israel does um everyone everyone with a vested interest in that who either occupies a position of power in America or will it's useful for them to know what is the worst thing we can do to someone. But I I I do also think that's right. Like it is it's kind of like the Iraq war in the 2008 Democratic primary, though hopefully it plays out better. To watch part two of this episode, you can support the show on Patreon. We both live in NYC. There's been a lot of talk about the difficulty of Zoron advancing certain planks, certain parts of his uh policy program. What do you think about these criticisms and obstacles like uh the billionaire tax and capital flight? Like people speculate that all the rich people are going to leave New York? I don't know. I'm not I'm not too worried about like like it just it capital flight doesn't really happen in American like large American cities like that. um at least for that reason or at least it would not happen here. Um New York specifically is in I mean I you know I could be totally wrong. I could end up like eating my words on this but it it like you you you have to figure that like they would have already done that. They would have already done that under like Delasio. Yeah. Yeah. Um yeah they're eating like 50% taxes to live in New York. So, I mean, I always think about like the just going back to Israel for a second, the most fervent, psychotic, punitive, like pro-Israel people in America, they don't even move to Israel, right? You know, the most anti-zoron people, they're not going to like go through the trouble of like, you know, getting a new driver's license. Um, it's a big it's a big cost to uproot yourself. And like I'm I'm inclined to agree with you actually. And I think we're talking about a 2% tax to fund like the free bus fair. Like that's not enough for someone to like move their whole life and their bank accounts and all this [ __ ] right? I Yeah, I I it maybe if you're like one of these hyper leveraged billionaires, like maybe. But if you are one of those guys, I think you have bigger problems ahead than like a 2% marginal raise on your taxes. Right. Right. Um, as far as everything else, I mean, Delasio, Bill Delasio, Bill [ __ ] Delasio did accomplish his like central goal of this administration at the end of the day. Mhm. And he still retained the support of his base. Yeah. So, what about this uh supposed Trump retaliation that he's going to withhold funds? He's going to send the National Guard, all sorts of things. I think any of those are certainly possible, but he would do that like no matter what, right? Like he, you know, there's nothing short of like having like an insane deal like Eric Adams did. Like sort of like getting caught on tape doing something like being like a transactional and amoral enough person to do that. Um I you know that's that's a risky run no matter what. I mean, if it comes down to it, I do think that he's aware that like when the bottom is already falling out a little bit with the American economy. Yeah. One of the one of the worst choices you can make is to just like completely occupy and like perforate like a city that constitutes 10% of the GDP. Not a bad idea. Yeah. You know, the f the fiscal capital of the country. American world. Yeah. No kidding. No kidding. Uh speaking of New York, um we had Ezra Klein on the show a few months back. He put out this book with uh Derek Thompson called Abundance. Um this uh certainly upsets very vocally a lot of people on the left. Zoron, however, is a supporter of many of these policies. What are your own thoughts on abundance? I mean, I' I I I've not read the book. Um, I know some of the broadstrokes, the abundance stuff that's like, okay, we're going to have like orbital drop ships or whatever. We're like ODSD from Halo and we're going to drop like pharmaceuticals that are made in suborbital laboratories into neighborhoods with drones and all this like crazy [ __ ] Mhm. It reminds me of the guys, the Trump guys who are like, you know, you you hate all these, you know, mean tweets and [ __ ] but like we want nuclear fusion powered space flight and all this [ __ ] and and this is how we get it. And the guy saying that is always like someone who runs like an athereum exchange and like how how do you get to how do you how do you achieve like nuclear nuclear aerial propulsion? something that no one in history has achieved uh outside of like the Voyager program from like a Bitcoin exchange for for for abundance it's the same thing of like how do we get from you know ondemand automated pharmaceutical space grids how do we get there from like zoning I guess that makes more sense getting there from zoning uh but I don't know I I I I'm sure they're earnest in their belief, but it is it feels like a a self-conscious attempt to just look busy. I think I think the uh kind of emulating, let's say, the style of a lot of these like right-wing like super futuristic accounts. Um I think that they are trying to invoke some of that aesthetic. For people who aren't familiar with what we're talking about, there's like little kind of future scenario sketch that's the the opening chapter to the book and it is really feeling like kind of it's trying to compete with the Elon Musk super futuristic vision of the future. Um yeah. Yeah. Okay. Did you ever see that? Um, sorry. I I forget like which uh it was one of the big like crypto exchanges. Uh like Binance or something like that, but it was an ad where like a based guy is going to a therapist. Yes. Oh, this was [ __ ] hilarious. Yeah. Yeah. Salana. It was a Yeah. Yeah. Okay. It was for Salana. I'm pretty sure. Yeah. Salana is like the most [ __ ] thing. He's like, I He's like, I want to build, right? Yeah. He's like, I want to build. I want to choose space colonization. Yeah. Yeah. And they're saying you're having problematic uh notdei thoughts right now. Something that really made me laugh is someone like looked back on Salana's account back to like the summer of 2020 and of course, you know, they were like, "Sana recognizes the contributions of PC." Really? Yeah. No, it's beautiful. Yeah. Oh, these they just [ __ ] [ __ ] to whatever is in power in the moment. That is beautiful. Yeah, the the irony of that whole [ __ ] Sorry, this is my own uh uh axe to grind, but like Salana, all of this crypto [ __ ] is Stateless Capital and then at the end of the little commercial they put together is like the Salana name with like the American flag and stars and stripes. It's like your entire project is to undermine the existence of states. Like what do you they're just signaling to whoever. So, it's yeah, PC in 2020, it's uh national conservatism in 2024. Beautiful. The only uh you know, big cap cryptocurrency out there that I think has a right to put an American flag next to its name is Bitcoin because it was probably created by an American intelligence agency. On this topic of uh being poor and living in New York, um you moved here in 2017, I think, right? I moved here in 2015. 2015. Okay. How uh so you've been here over the course of like let's say 10 years. Yeah. How have you personally seen the cost of living increase over that time? Pretty dramatically even though I do think that like you know I am quite insulated from it. I um I've more so seen like I don't I don't have like a comprehensive picture of across the board price increases in everything. You know, I get the I get the uh sense and there there I have anecdotal evidence for, you know, things being astronomically cheaper when I first moved here. Mhm. Mhm. Uh-huh. When me, Amber Frost, and Nick Mullen, when we all lived together, uh, for like the first year of the show's existence and before that, you know, all of us paid like $600 to to live there. And it it wasn't like an amazing place, but it wasn't a like dump or anything. And I really don't know if there are places like that anymore for for like younger people who are moving here. I get Yeah, I get the sense that it is like way more prohibitively expensive and there's just far fewer means of uh social mobility especially. Yeah, this is something I've talked about with Amber in the past, but like the ideal conditions for making creative work is when the cost of living is low and the wages are high and so you can ideally work part-time and then have a few decommodified days in the calendar week and you can like do your weird art practice or your creative writing or something like that. Yeah. And the cost of living rising over the last like let's say decade has basically just squeezed that out to like you know maybe we are even examples of this oddly enough is that the only kind of overhead and uh manageable creative practice is like people can work with immediately what they have around which is just talking into a laptop in most cases. I mean like I I there was like a cut off point where you noticed that like people stopped coming here to like you know for most of us like content creation was like not the first thing we thought of. Yep. But like there were people who came here to do like all sorts of like interesting things all the time up until I would say about like 2020 and it got there were fewer and fewer people every year. Mhm. Mhm. But yeah, no I I in 2015 and like 2016 when we were in that apartment and Yeah. our rent was like $600 each or something. Amazing. Yeah. Like I before the show um I would like do like odd jobs like walk people's dogs and [ __ ] like that uh or like you know like move boxes around or whatever and then like do like freelance stuff and I would not necessarily like want to live the rest of my life making $1,200 a year. Sure. But like when you're like 24, 25, like it was like pretty fun. Mhm. Like you still got to do a lot of [ __ ] You got to go a lot of places. It you you were still able to like meet all types of different people and engage in culture and pick things up. And uh you know I imagine there was a lot less means of social mobility in 2015 and 16 compared to like you know when magazines would pay you $2 a word. Oh yeah. Big time. You know uh but at the same time there was like you could you could like make a living through media. Uh and you could make a middle class living through media. Yeah. Yeah, I mean it is that that is one of the sad things I on the show like our show we like to make fun of articles and all that but like you know first of all we owe our entire business to articles. Second off um it was more fun to live here when like there were tons of people writing articles all the time and like making a living from articles. Yeah. Yeah. I never really thought about it this way at the time, but I I kind of showed up for the last two years that there was any money in articles. Yeah. Yeah. And not that they were profitable, they were not, but like that that you know, investment capital was there was enough like cultural uh cultural sheen and prestige. Yeah. That they would accept these things as a loss leader. Mhm. Mhm. Um you know even even the very degenerated um comparatively poor paying media that uh I I was a part of compared to that of the one 20 30 years before. I saw some there were some like real really like idiotic deals that I really got the better of just by virtue of like you know Apple would invest $2 billion in genius and you know some billionaire somewhere thinks that there's something cool about owning a newspaper. I worked at a really weird place briefly before Chapo that was um nothing against the the people that work there and the guy that founded it, but it was like so it was the guy who founded diapers.com and he wanted to make he wanted to make a like a multimedia news site that was like a combination of [ __ ] like John Oliver and like the Intercept. Okay. It was so like tonally weird. All right. Right. Who's the host for it? Oh, I mean there were a ton of different people working on it who like have all gone on to like do different [ __ ] But uh you know the the point being like there was still like people making really poor financial choices like that just completely out of their desire for like c cultural prestige. Right. Right. There are still, you know, uh, billionaire media pet projects now, but it's always like someone has a very specific like local politics axe to grind. Yeah. Yeah. Is there something about like there's been a development I think in the American ruling class where like previously if you were like a wealthy uh robber baron like you would have to give back in the form of like Carnegie libraries, right? There's like all of these things like the um I went to the Frick Collection um a few months back. If people aren't familiar, this is in New York City. It's this palatial home on the upper east side if I recall correctly. And it's got basically the best art collection that you've ever seen in your whole life. It's like this is where you go to see the Rembrandt self-portrait, right? It's like the all of the really like important um incredible works that you learn about in like high school and college. Henry Clayfrick is um a steel industrialist who is famous for being incredibly brutal and having uh people who tried to organize in his shops murdered, right? It's like the most high contrast example of like cruelty but then giving back in that the mission statement for the Frick Collection is that it's like open to the public in perpetuity and accessible and affordable and all these things. So there was some sense in previous iterations of the American ruling class that they owed a small debt to society. And now I feel like the American ruling class like Bezos and Musk for example, they're like, "Oh, we owe nothing. Actually, we're going to escape and leave all of you to rot on a planet that is heating up rapidly." Like there's been some kind of transformation in this 21st century robber baron class, I think. Yeah. Yeah. And obviously I mean I think there's a ton of different reasons for it. You know there's always been cultural stratification and cultural goods that like you know the the the audiences were more economically stratified and you know typically people below like a certain wealth level wouldn't touch it. But by and large we shared the same culture all everyone you know and um at least a guy like Carnegie had like a vested interest in the upkeep of the culture in you know even if he didn't care about certain forms of art that like the conditions would be such that like people could uh people could study it, people could make advancements in it. Uh same thing with architecture, same thing with like you know any you know billion other pursuits. Uh even a rapacious guy like Frick or like Jay Gould, one of these late uh 19th century finance years who you know cornered the yarn market in 1897 and caused like 70,000 deaths. Like one of those guys. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Jay Gold is my favorite one of those guys. But they they even like the worst [ __ ] you can imagine from that period, they still did something like, you know, they built a library because there was still like for them they did probably it probably wasn't like entirely altruistic, but they did probably think like, okay, well, we're kind of in this together for better or for worse. Probably for worse for me if I'm Jake Gould. But yeah. Yeah. You know, I I g I guess that, you know, I I I would like more of these people to be literate. Uh I I'd like more people to be able to appreciate what you know, Vagner. Or at least if I give them Vagner, they don't come to my mansion with pitchforks and torches. Like there was always that threat. I wonder. I think that's a huge thing, too. That's definitely I mean around that time there were so many assassinations in the late uh 19th century. Yeah, that was a huge part of it I'm sure. But um I wonder if it might like financialization might be a little bit of the problem too. That it that it's less clear where the wealth is being extracted to. What do you mean? I more mean in the sense that like the individual billionaire or or whatever family whatever the locust of like the these immense concentrations of wealth that um no one you know you can't give an exact pinpoint on like the start of like hyper financialization but generally we'll say like the late '7s. Sure. Yeah. Like neoliberalism. Yeah. Yeah. I like to say I always like to put it like right after Vulkar raises the rates. Yep. Vulker shock. Yeah. But after that, even be Yeah. Because even before that, super rich guys would still, you know, do things like this like either appeal to the public or uh just do something out of their own um cultural ambitions. But uh financialization it made these guys less human. It made them more like single person NOS or private military contractors or or or like I guess kind of nation states onto people in a lot of ways. Yeah. Uh, and it also, this is kind maybe sort of a reductive answer, but I do think that whether you're [ __ ] Jeff Bezos or John Arnold or, you know, some brilliant guy that did some amazing currency trade with George Soros 40 years ago and you're still living off the $7 billion he made that day, you still have the same brain as like a cocaine adult kick streamer who has millions of dollars but keeps like keeps playing like Bitcoin slots and your brain still lights up when you see the number go up. And I don't know, I think about Steven Paddock who blew out all his synopsis playing video poker and going on sex tours and doing whatever the [ __ ] he did. The less the less like directly personally violent but similar version of that would be someone who has like $40 billion from doing whatever whatever thing that like m makes the world just a little bit shittier every day. It's probably a little thrilling for them to look at like um and who know you know who knows how the money breaks down. I'm sure that there's no one out there who has like they literally have $40 billion in a checking account, but it is like, you know, everything is set up for them to just for their money to kind of grow exponentially over the course of their lifetimes. Off returns. Yeah. Yeah. And maybe a lot of them are just really into that. M on this topic of neoliberalism, um Zoron is kind of in my view like an old school social democrat, right? Like he's bringing us back to the way that politics was organized previous to this like crisis in the 1970s, right? Yeah. Um and I'm very much in favor of those things. We are, however, at this weird transitional period where like Trump has done away with the old global neoliberal model. we're no longer in the Bretton Woods paradigm. Um, and I had kind of been thinking over the last year that like are we still playing neoliberalism versus social democracy, right? Like a lot of the politics on the left in the last few years has been kind of um can we turn the dial from privatization back towards like having more universal public services. Uh and I guess this is a kind of heartening example that that politics is obviously popular but uh not just popular it is possible. Um what are your thoughts on this paradigm? Like are we still carrying forward the flag of social democracy under whatever this new Trump world order is that's emerging. I think that's an accurate appraisal. The the question though of whether you know whether you would call like whatever whatever the program politics that like you know uh Carney in Canada and like Mcronone and uh Hakee Jeff for that matter if you would still call that neoliberalism. I mean, pro I would say for like probably most of those guys, yeah. Um, and the only reason I'm iffy on Jeffre is I don't think he's verbalized his opinion on like anything in about three years. Um, they're going to primary him, right? They have to. Yeah. Like I have never seen someone who is so dead set on doing a job that they do not have to do and clearly are just horribly uncomfortable in. But um I yeah I I I am not I am not the the greatest in the world at like categorizing these things. Um I would actually say that like you know, whatever you would call like this constituency in America for social de uh dem uh democracy. I would like to see them I would like to see nationalization like just fullbore nationalization become more of a topic. Yeah. Yeah. And I don't like I don't think it's a crazy thing that freaks people out. Um Corbin in 2017 talked about nationalization a lot. Um, I know that the, you know, conventional knowledge is now that like even if Corbin is a very sweet man, he's kind of a [ __ ] lunkhead as a politician. But he did do very well. He he did very well in 2017. And obviously the UK is a different c country with a different political culture and a different history behind these things and nationalization too. They're a little more used to that in some cases. Yeah. But I mean, no time like the president to get moving though, right? Uh I couldn't agree more. Uh on this topic of American social democracy, uh the primary plank of this movement was Medicare for all. Uh there's a whole bunch of political also economic reasons why that is. Um recently there is a crisis around healthcare that is apparently shredding the Republican party. Uh, one, Marjorie Taylor Green has broken with Trump on this question of healthcare. What do you make about her views about the Affordable Care Act and these uh uh soon to disappear subsidies? This the thing that gives me pause on all of this is um watch any like any media property that you like that has been running for the past 30 years. Uh mo most things that are still in circulation, still being made today, they're around that old because no no one makes anything new anymore. I think Nashville is like the last new cultural product out of America. Yeah. Yeah. Uh but if you you know, watch a watch an episode of Law and Order from like 1999, uh you know, any any show like that, CSI, [ __ ] whatever. In every every like six or seven years in those shows, there will be like an issue episode about HMOs or health insurance. Yeah. If it's in the late 90s, it's HMOs specifically. Then if it's during the second Bush administration, it's about health insurance specifically. There's always like been a cultural presence for this idea that we, you know, should have Medicare for all in America, no matter what it was called at the time. But it's just I have yet to see any evidence that we have anything besides like a cultural release valve for that because it it's it's just always this thing that like every few years we all agree that it's [ __ ] sucks. We hate it and and then it gets more expensive and works for fewer people and then nothing nothing. I mean, uh, obviously I think it would be great if we had Medicare for all. I think it would take the boot off the neck of a lot of people. It would improve millions of lives. It would save countless lives. But you can make the case for that being maybe the best of all possible solutions in America in 1999. I think we have to nationalize like everything and not just doing like an American NHS, but kind of nationalizing everything along along every step of the way. I mean, the unbridled profitering and gouging and criminality in the American healthc care sector, there aren't a lot of industries like that in the world. it it's really I mean I don't think anyone could argue that it's operating at peak efficiency and it's the rot just goes so deep that I think I I do think that you have to kind of divorce everything from profit for for a while probably forever um and I do obviously Medicare for all on a 10-year run it's it's cheaper than what we do now, right? That that's the thing that everyone say that's the great irony of this whole [ __ ] situation is that it's cost-saving. It's not too expensive. It's cost-saving, but I do also think that there is a great danger of I if there was Medicare for all that like there would be collusion in like the remaining profiters in the American healthcare trade, right, of gouging the life out of it. Sure. And obviously like just having like a nationalized system like the NHS that is not a silver bullet either because they're you know the the forces are trying to do that too over there. But just put side by side obviously the NHS has had its fair share of issues in the last decade or so. I still think it's preferable to Canada's system and I think even preferable to that would be like yeah no we we're no one we're not allowing any private companies to operate in this field anymore. I mean, the first time that someone that someone devised a system where you get booted off of coverage based on how much you are algorithmically determined to be a a a doormat, to be someone who won't contest it. Like the first time that happened, we it should have been like, "Oh, okay. All right, no more. You you you cannot even sell like tubes for interferon at a profit." But um I don't know how much currency my line of thinking has though. Yeah. Honestly, when we were talking about like people who made the shift, obviously like there there's like, you know, three or four names that are like the most prominent examples. Y the entire time I was thinking about like a specific guy who isn't famous at all. Okay. Like I think it's really annoying. Oh yeah. is like, you know, a guy who is like my least favorite friend for two years. Okay. Just one specific dude who sucks. Yeah, th those are usually like my axes to grind. I don't um out of like all the uh you know I get a little embarrassed calling them like enemies because you are talking about like both you and them are just like staring at your screen completely emotionless like typing paragraphs and paragraphs about each other over over the years. But uh you know out of all the people other media figures we've been in opposition to there's only a couple that I think like I really like authentically like really [ __ ] like hate really just anger me at a deep level. Um, I really do think that like the long for the most part for 99% of instances, the longer you you observe someone and read them or listen to them or whatever, the more interested in them as a person you become. I think I think it's kind of inevitable for the most part. Yeah. You know, we've been on a little bit of an arc in the last few months of kind of like just mapping the spectrum of internet politics and it has been really I try not to talk about any previous guests on the show, but it has been really I think enlightening to sit down with these people who in my mind they're invested with this tremendous discursive power because they have an enormous platform, but in many cases they're just like a person who has a hobby and likes to like rile people up, but they're not like a philosopher or ideologue. you know, it's kind of like hanging out with an artist and then it's like, oh, but then millions of people are exposed to what this person does and they have enormous influence in like real politics. Um, it's very very surreal. But, uh, to transition a little bit into your personal background and your early story of how you were politicized, you have talked a bit on the show. Um, I believe you studied history and politics specializing in the Middle East. So you come from a kind of serious intellectual background of looking at these questions. You're not just a casual poet or a [ __ ] poster who got into politics. How did you choose to study that material? That's a little bit of an unusual choice. Um I don't I I I'm really just like an enthusiastic hobbyist. I I I took one good shot at trying to learn Arabic and it was just I did not get very far. Okay. Like I don't I I I I I really I mean there are people who I consider like incredibly knowledgeable experts who don't speak the language, but I'm not one of them. Uh I you know a lot more than I do. So that's enough for me. I just had like um I don't know. I I I was one of those kid and I guess I still am kind of like this where like every two years or 18 months there's just there would just be like a a topic that would really like I didn't want to read about anything else. I only wanted to know about that. You know at one point in my childhood it was Napoleon and then that led me to read about the battle of Achre. Okay. And then that led to the Ottomans. Uh but for a lot of people there are a few interests you know interests like that come and go and they wax and wayne but a few of them will stay with you for life and uh for me I don't know I I I just maybe it was like growing up I was in middle school when 911 happened was planned whatever people want to say. Um, and I mean obviously every kid is different, but um, I think around like age 10, 11, that is like that's kind of when like the the the outwardly apparent foundations of your personality really start to crystallize. Sure. And maybe just the fact that like it just happened stancially around then that I I I already had some background of interest in some of these things and um it doveetailed with stuff I was hearing about. But also like um no just the the people in my family were also incredibly well read, much better read than I was at M. uh incredibly smart and uh opinionated and really funny. I think most importantly uh and they all had they all had like their own opinions that ranged from like you know sort of 90s sock left lib to like just weird half joking [ __ ] that my dad would talk about. Yeah. Half joking. like he said um he had this longunning joke about John McCain being a Manurion candidate, but he was like, "But we kind of have it coming." Oh. Oh, interesting. Okay. Okay. Um and I think I I think that had a that the old Hassan [ __ ] No, I I I I think that had I think that had as as big an effect as big of an effect as anything did though because um all kids do this thing, right, where where uh they find out something about like the adult world or even the teenage world where they'll see their older siblings preparing for college applications or or or going to a summer job or they'll see see their parents doing taxes or paying bills or like stress stressing about whatever adult thing and you will as a child uh you you will kind of freak out a little bit. You'll have a little bit of an internal panic about the idea of like finding a job, buying a house, how do I know what to buy at the grocery store? Uh because you you conceive you conceive of yourself as you're imagining it taking on those tasks in the body of an adult but with the mind that you have as like an 8-year-old because it's impossible for an 8-year-old to conceive of having any other mind. I think for for for most kids uh politics and like and uh more gran granular aspects of history and economics the those that falls into the same category because it is there's like a dryness and a seriousness with it. But when like you you see people like joking about it and there's like a fluidity and it's this thing that can be funny. There's obviously like you don't get really many or or maybe any of the jokes if you're like eight, but it's still there's the a similar rhythm to the conversation as like when you and your friends talk about like the animemaniacs or some [ __ ] Yeah. And I I really do think that went a long way towards uh to towards uh ma making it a kind of a lifelong interest. M the last thing I want to ask you here um you know I think everybody is celebrating in this like incredible moment of Zoron's victory. What is the takeaway that we should learn going into 2028? What are the pitfalls that we should be aware of? What should we learn from this incredible moment and historic victory for the left? I think um there is a little bit of the Obama problem where you do have like a singularly capable lead, but like like in the same way that Obama did also have very well-run campaigns, there is still some I think pretty valuable takeaways, obviously the one I keep hitting on is this idea that voters and especially uninitiated voters do want the chance to rise. rise to the occasion and be spoken to like adults and um they aren't flattered by candidates dumbing themselves down uh right in front of them. something something that I hope some of the people around Zoron uh remember is that the for for a lot of this Israel stuff there is just nothing he can say or do that is ever going to satisfy some people. I think for the most part they're aware of that. But uh in the future, I hope whoever whoever comes next, whoever that may be, wherever wherever whatever races, whatever uh whether it is like more municipal contests or some federal seats. I do hope that um that is apparent to uh people watching this that there's just there's really nothing you can do to appease people who say you did 9/11 or like you know say that you want to kill all the Jews. Um I guess those are the only two things I really feel like confident in saying now. all the other stuff is like we'll kind of have to see how it'll play out. But I would be remiss if I didn't mention Brandon Johnson in the light of this. I don't think that Zoron is going to be it's going to be like that. Um, but I do think this is this could be a very good test case to see how will the DSA function as like an organizational an organizational ally to an elected official that um also represents some of the organizational backbone of their campaign. It'll be, I hope, very good, a very good proof of concept for um people on the electoral side of the DSA advancing an agenda at the behest of an executive. Yeah. Yeah. Um that's great point. saw a quote from Bannon the other day that he is uh taking the 5,000 volunteers in the DSA and Zoran's campaign very seriously and sees it as a kind of populist analog to Trump running these insurgent candidates. Uh yeah, so it'll be uh very exciting and telling to see what can develop uh with that organizational structure. Felix Beerman, thank you so much. Fan of your work and uh it's wonderful to finally have you on the podcast. Oh, it's my pleasure. Thank you again so much. I I've really been looking forward to this and no. Yeah, this this was a dream come true. Yeah. Thanks, Felix. My pleasure. Thanks for listening. To watch part two of this episode, you can support the show on Patreon.