There is a closer uh uh footage of Charlie Kart getting shot in the neck here as well where you can click Oh, he's dead. Oh my god, he's definitely dead. Oh my god, I can't believe I just saw that. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh, he definitely got in the neck. Oh my god. Oh. Oh yeah. No, I I that that footage that you do not want to see that. You do not want to see that. You do not want to see that. That footage. That footage. Charlie Kirk just got at UVU. Unconfirmed, but it looks like what just happened? Okay, first of all, you literally are a New York Times photojournalist. Please don't do this. Okay, this doesn't mean Charlie Kirk got shot. Okay, this is mean fired at the Charlie Kirk UVU event. That's a crazy leap. We don't know what happened. Please don't come in here with breaking news like this, guys. We will get there. Look at his page. Make Utah great again. What? He's Who is this guy? He said Charlie Kirk was That's crazy. If that's the case, if that was the case, there' be video footage of it, I'm pretty sure. I mean, this is not It's Utah. It's not that backwards. Okay, there's other accounts. None of them are journalists saying Charlie Kirk got shot. Okay, find find me a video of of the incident and I'll Okay, that's not a video of the incident. That's just people saying Charlie Kirk has been killed in Provo, Utah. What the Charlie Kirk just got in the neck? Please stop. They don't got internet in Utah or cameras. Okay, that is crazy. Um, does this mean your debate is canled? Yes, that would mean that would mean the debate is canled if he got shot in the neck. What the is happening? Mike Lee, I am tracking the situation at Utah Valley University closely. Please join me in praying for Charlie Kirk and the students gathered there. How is this? How is it? Fired at Charlie Kirk event at Utah Valley University. Been fired at Charlie Kirk event at Utah Valley University. Footage from the scene showed event goers screaming as rang out on Wednesday. People at the event took to social media to share details of the moment someone opened fire at the conservatives event. Kirk published a post on X just minutes before reports of the emerged. How is there no footage of this? What the is going on? Okay, there's a live stream. Did this live stream show the being fired? Why do you want to see your political opponent get [ __ ] so badly? What, bro? What will it take for you to believe? Wait, first of all, these two things are at odds with one another. It's my job to make sure that I uh get this breaking news story correctly. That's number one. And number two, what a stupid ass joke to make, dude. I have to confirm it. I can't just like I can't just like go along with hearsay. These things are incredibly incredibly uh uh like there are so many cameras on these sorts of things. What the are you talking about? Charlie Kirk goes Charlie Kirk goes to a uh a college campus. There's going to be a lot of phone cameras out. Okay. Around 60 minutes on that Twitter live link. Is it going to It doesn't show anything, right? They still should not be children shouldn't be killed at the age of zero. We also don't condone either. We don't think that's all right. We're not Yeah, we're not supporting terror. Say that. Say that one more time real quick. We also don't condone Hamas. We think that people have a right to live. And that that's kind of back to Are you going to go down and see the get closer? Are they like restricting you guys up here or what? No, it's too crowded. It's just there's just so much before we had a flag and we had it. So, holy [ __ ] Holy [ __ ] Okay, so then it cuts. The live stream literally cuts. The live stream just cuts from that interview to people just going holy [ __ ] and running around. Also, if Charlie K be an incredible amount of annoying political leverage for Christian conserv 9 10 minutes ago at the YouTube video. Wait, he was doing a YouTube video as well. Oh no, this is another person. Okay, this is just a random know who's been shot. One more time real quick. We also don't think the people have a right to live. Kind of back to like the love. Why did these live streams skip right as the happens? Look like Oh, no. This one doesn't. It's just there's just so much. Before we had a flag and we got shot. Holy [ __ ] Holy. No way, dude. No way. Desireette is reporting he was shot. Okay, Desireette News now reporting Charlie Kirk shot at Utah event. Charlie Kirk. This is a breaking news story. We'll be updated. Charlie Kirk was shot at an event at Utah Valley University in Oram, Utah on Wednesday. Bystanders report seeing Kirk shot. Jesus Christ, dude. Oh my god. Bystanders report seeing Kirk shot near his neck during a Q&A with students. What the is happening, brother? What the is happening? Dean Withers. Charlie Kirk was reportedly shot in the neck. Why would Dean know? Was he there? Did he attend this event? I know he like tries to go to Charlie Kirk events to try to debate him. bandwidth over mobile and the frame size suddenly increases due to movement. That's why the live stream cuts when everyone starts to run. Yeah. No, that makes sense. But I don't know like I don't I can't see from this angle whe I assume this is the tent where Charlie Kirk is, right? Like this is this is the tent where he is, right? Minute 1814. Guy says the security said that and there are people with guys guns. Check for the live chat. Found the video of him being shot. There is 0% chance. There is 0% chance that if this happened and Charlie Kirk got shot that someone doesn't have uh the footage. Benny Johnson and Candace Owens and everyone is saying like pray right now for Charlie Kirk. Pray right now. Pray with everything you have. Get down on your knees and pray. Please. I confirm that Charlie has been wounded at event in Utah. Please Jesus help us now. A journalist is reporting on this. Desireette News and KSL are gathering as much info as we can. witness told our newsroom that they heard a blast like a firecracker while Charlie Kirk was answering a question creating panic at UVU. So, is it actually um is it actually a an a you know a moment of panic and that there's like misinformation flying around or did he actually get shot? I don't understand cuz like this is the photo that this guy poses said Charlie Kirk breaking Charlie Kirk shot in the neck. Oh, you found the video. Oh [ __ ] Hold on. I'm going to look at the video right now. I told you there's got to be a video. Wait. All right. Oh my god. Holy Oh, dude. You hear a shot. You hear the crack of a shot and then you hear you hear his head just crack back right after. And um I think the I think what the people are saying is correct. Uh that he might have been shot in the neck. Oh my god. Okay. Um, holy dude, Charlie Kirk is u, as far as I've seen, Charlie Kirk has been shot at an event at UVU in Utah. What the Well, but I don't know if it's the neck though because um the moment of impact I see like on the moment of impact you see his t-shirt go like this. Um, and I don't know if that's because of the like you see you you you see him recoil and his head rocks back, but I don't know if it was actually him in the neck. I think it was in the chest cuz the the area of impact that you see the area of impact that you see is on the shirt. Like I I I'm looking at it right now. I'm looking right at the video. It's in his neck. Blood comes pouring out. Oh, second photo. Look at his neck. Oh [ __ ] Yeah. Wait, how did he unconfirmed reports right now of of it's coming from his neck if you pause for 4 seconds. Was it point blank or from afar? I have no idea. I don't know this about quickly and vehemently for your own safety. Yeah. No [ __ ] dude. What the do you mean? Of course. I don't think you guys understand. I was supposed to debate him in a public setting uh like a month from now. Obviously, like even a aside from the principle of it all. Yeah. No [ __ ] It's also for my own personal safety as well though. I'm also I don't know if you guys know this, but I'm also a public figure uh who who does political commentary who was supposed to debate Charlie Kirk in a public setting at Dartmouth University a month from now. I assume it's not going to happen now. Obviously, UVU I go to UVU and I got this emergency message. UVU alert. A single shot was fired on campus towards a visiting speaker. Police are investigating now. Suspect in custody. Yeah, that debate is canled. Yeah, I don't think that debate is happening any longer. Chatters, what the Stop going to public events, bro. For real? Yeah, bro. Stop going. Stop cancel your public events. Hogs are going to want revenge. What do you mean? Supposedly supposedly that I'm going to guess there has to be Hassanabi heads that they were there. Can they report it? There's some hass here, but yes, the Dartmouth debate was supposed to happen in 15 days from now. I was supposed to debate Charlie Kirk in 15 days at Dartmouth University. Um, but obviously that's not going to happen any longer, I suspect. Um, and uh here is uh here's footage of the man that allegedly shot Charlie Kirk. That's what they're suspecting. That's what the that's what it seems like. That's right. It's like a old dude. You know, is going to be safest for you, but I think chatters are saying that hogs don't think straight and will want revenge against you for some reason. People just wanting you to be careful. Revenge is in another commentator. Not that you had anything to do with it in particular. Stay safe. Yes. No, I understand that. Yes. Chatters. Charlie Kirk got shot in the neck. I watched it. I watched a video. It looks like like I it it's just he gets shot. There's only one There's only one footage that we've seen, one uh piece of footage that we've seen so far. It's this one uh where you briefly see it and the camera moves, the camera pans away uh right after he gets shot, but um there is a screenshot from the photo where there uh there's a screenshot from the footage that shows that there's like blood coming out of his neck. I don't know. Um I don't know what going on. Uh I don't know anything beyond that. This is the most insane situation. Uh we have no additional evidence or no news beyond the fact that the police have already said that it was a single shot that was fired uh at UVU police said there's a worst clip on Twitter from the front row. Send that to me as well. But my point is he gets shot and the the uh he gets shot in the neck and the the uh the the campus police statement on it was uh single shot fired against event speaker uh and the shooter has been uh the suspect has been apprehended. So that leads me to believe that most likely the guy that uh shot him was probably the old guy cuz he is the guy that has been apprehended. Candace almost says, "Everyone, please stop what you're doing and pray for Charlie Kirk, please." Um there is a closeup there is a closer uh uh footage of Charlie Kirk getting shot in the neck here as well where you can Oh, he's dead. Oh my god, he's definitely dead. Oh my god, I can't believe I just saw that. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh, he definitely got shot in the neck. Oh my god. Oh. Oh, yeah. No, I I that that footage that you do not want to see that. You do not want to see that. You do not want to see that. That footage that footage the close-up footage shows very clearly immediately blood pouring out of his jugular. He gets shot in the neck. Blood pouring out of his jugular. Like an an unimaginable amount of blood pouring out of his jugular. There is very very little chance that he uh survived that. I don't know. I don't know if he did. Uh, but it doesn't seem like it. Oh my god, that was devastating. Holy [ __ ] I really I I don't know what to say. Oh my lord. Oh Jesus Christ. Holy America is so absolutely Fox News is covering it now. before. So, not even 30 minutes ago, 29 minutes ago, he had posted images of himself before this huge crowd at uh Utah Valley University there outside of Provo. And he he said, "We're so back." You could see there was enthusiasm. He was passing hats around. You can watch him on video. This is just this was posted half an hour doing that and greeting this crowd. He is somebody that the Trump campaign, as Kristen was noting, utilized very effectively to harness his leadership in this conservative activist movement. Again, with young people, young men specifically, we've talked about this a lot when we look back. Charlie Kirk is at the heart of that effort. They relied on on him and his organization a lot for their ground game in a lot of the states around the country. And so this is somebody who obviously has a huge voice inside conservative American politics, a big Trump supporter, uh but obviously now in this really unfortunate horrific experience is going to be at the center of a conversation about political I would imagine that we're going to be having uh in the aftermath of this horrific event. Certainly. And there's a lot of reason to be concerned right now is we do not know uh his status. We don't know how he's doing and we're awaiting word certainly of that. as you mentioned, it says a lot about where we are as a nation when it comes to in politics. Can you talk a little bit about what he was doing in Utah? He was going to universities to speak to young people. Yeah. And and organizing them and and again, that's why I was literally you can just bring it up from his Twitter page a little while ago. You can see it's not just like some Charlie Clark Kirk was doing an event the one of the classic events that he does like a change my mind style event at Utah at a campus on Utah at UVU campus. He was sitting under a tent. One shot rings out and immediately his jugular opens up and blood is just pouring out of his neck. I I I saw it. I'm confirming it. I'm telling you right now. Um, there is a very very low likelihood of survival beyond that point. I I I mean I don't know. I don't know what's happened. I I I I don't It's not It's the most insane thing I've ever seen. The reason why I say it was most likely his jugular is because I've never seen so much blood pour out of someone's neck in real time in like a moment's notice before. It just it just completely gushes out. Do not watch the video. If you have not seen the video, do not like the reason why I watched it is because I wanted to see uh the reason why I watched it is because I had to confirm whether or not this was a real incident. I'm telling you, avoid it. It is one of the most up things you could possibly see. There is one video that uh there was one video that was shot from afar that uh that basically uh shows you his uh his head cracking back after you hear the shots being uh after you hear the one shot fired. Um and then the camera pans away. There is another video from inside of the crowd, uh, a closer up video that is circulating online right now where you literally see where you just straight up see his jugular gush out uh, after the after the moment of impact. That second video is that second video, the close-up video is from like 15 feet away. And I mean, look, I I I cover I cover Israel every day. I see I see charred children. Um, I see I see children carrying their their dead parents in in trash bags uh to the hospital every day. It still is a little different, at least from my perspective, I think, because I, you know, this is a person who uh does what I do, but you know, on the opposing side, I was supposed to debate him at Dartmouth University 15 days from now in a public event, in a public setting. I go out to public settings like this all the time. So, there's a there's a level of closeness uh uh in in in that regard because of because of the nature of of of what I do. I I mean, look, I I have a policy of not living in fear and uh you know, I I but we'll see. We'll I might have to reconfigure certain things. This is this is insane. I I never thought I would see something like this. Was it a handgun? But I guess if there's one country where something like this could happen, it's this one. It's also notable that he hosts as part of many of the events that he has these debates with folks that come, college students and and others who come as part of a crowd and and he hosts debates with them at close proximity. We don't know that that's exactly what happened here, but it is notable given what you were just describing, Chief Ramsey, as the setting for these events. We also have a a statement put out by uh California Governor Gavin Newsome now who interviewed Kirk on his podcast back in March of this year. He says, "The attack on Charlie Kirk is disgusting, vile, and reprehensible. In the United States of America, we must reject political in every form." Uh let's go back to the White House now and and Kristen Holmes because uh it's notable as we just said uh you know he he's been interviewed by Democrats and Republicans. The weight that he carries and his voice within the conservative movement especially among young people. He's someone who at times has had the president's ear as well. Not just had the president's ear at times. I mean he is incredibly close with President Trump. They speak directly. He also is close with members high level members of the administration. You see the vice president tweeting there. He knows and speaks to Charlie Kirk. If there if you are talking to people within the administration, they will tell you that Kirk is somebody who has the finger on the pulse of the MAGA movement in a way uh that sometimes even the people in Washington do not. He has been such a force for President Trump, somebody that they relied on at times there. It was even floated that he might join the administration. And I was told during the transition that they actually believed that he was more powerful not being part of the administration because of the following that he has, because of this unique ability he has uh to reach these specific young voters. And one of the stories we did on the campaign uh was how exactly they were doing this. And this was by reaching out to uh people who hadn't voted before, bringing them into the MAGA movement and getting them to vote for President Trump. So, it's not just as though this is an ally of the presidents. It's somebody who again has this enormous following that the president pays attention to, who he's close to, who he listens to. Uh we can recall that there have been issues that Charlie Kirk has brought to the president's attention uh that people in the base were upset about. This is something we've reported on extensively. So, so this is again I just think it's really important to note here. While he's not a government official, while he is not a member of the administration, he's essentially the closest thing you could get uh to that position without actually being in the government. He's influential in Washington. He's influential in the Republican party and he's certainly influential with President Trump. uh and influence. This is part of the reason why I don't make a big public show of a lot of the public events that I'm attending ahead of time until it's happening in real time. You know, um I'm like this is obviously always this is obviously always a fear in especially in the United States of America. Um there is not I mean I don't know what the to say, dude. I don't know what the to say other than uh America is an incredibly violent country and it's getting even more violent. uh every every day. It's one of the most insane This is one of the most insane things I've seen. This is um Is he dead? From what I saw from what I saw. I I look I I there's no confirmation yet. There's no confirmation yet, but I don't I saw the close-up video uh to to confirm the veracity of the reporting and and let me tell you in the absence of like uh like immediate super significant medical intervention, I don't know uh how he survives that because yeah, I I will just say the upclose video, the the the closer video that is being circulated around online right now basically shows uh I I it's it's right in the neck and the amount of blood that gushes out of his neck in that moment in real time implies that there is very very low likelihood of survival. Like that's not I think if your if your jugular was cut like that. Uh I I assume I I I don't know. I I I I don't know how how you uh I mean he's been hospitalized so I guess he is alive. Like according to Fox News he's been hospitalized. I don't know how he survives that. I don't know how he did, but if he's actually at the hospital, that means, you know, there has been medical intervention. He's not dead. Uh Kirk has been scheduled to appear at Utah Valley University on Wednesday as a part of the American Comeback Tour. Um I don't I Yes, I was supposed to debate him in in two weeks at Dartmouth University. I mean, there's Look, there is um I have a lot of I have a lot of opinions uh and a lot of feelings right now. One is that this is um this is a person that I uh have have known and have been uh that I've debated in public settings since 2016. I had two uh very public debates with him at Politicon and I was supposed to do another in uh Dartmouth in in 15 days. I I obviously also uh do public events such as this one as well as a political commentator on the opposing side. I I mean obviously this this kind of uh this kind of is completely unacceptable and I don't I'm just letting you guys know obviously I have a a in my in the way that I'm I'm looking at the situation it's a it's a little bit difficult for me not to um not to feel uh heavily biased. You a leftist for the fashion. Thank you. There's a 87 to 90% chance of surviving a gunshot wound to the neck if no major arteries were destroyed. So chances of him survive I mean it's it's uh there was a local news live protesters up above him and to his right not in the area that the shot came from um and they were they would say things and boo here and there but overall it seemed very supportive of what was going on. And with the tears, the levels when events are held out here. I obviously this was a big crowd, but are they typically occupying those those balconies and those on Look, I don't know if it was his jugular or not, but the amount of blood that I saw [ __ ] spurting out of his neck made me think that it was most likely his his jugular. Okay. Well, we appreciate your It is the most horrifying thing I've ever seen. Maybe made more horrifying by the fact that I know him personally. I've known him for years and and have and was supposed to debate him. I don't know. And and like what he does for a living, it makes it we don't have we don't have a color at the moment. Like that's why I'm saying I'm a little bit biased in this situation. Obviously, it's like very hard for me to see the shooting on his It's very hard for me to see this as like anything but an immediate threat to to anyone that does this. Who has been shot a great guy from top to bottom. God bless him. We're hearing a number of reactions like that on social media. the latest from President Trump as Tamara said. Guys, shut the [ __ ] up. Stop saying take the day off and reorient yourself. Okay, calm down. Jesus Christ. I'm a 34 year old man. Okay, shut up. Oh my god. We understand there was a speaker um that had just gone out um Charlie Kirk hadn't even spoken yet. And so we're taking a look right now on your screen here. We're getting more video of Utah Valley University at this event right before the shooting. Um, one witness had just told us on the phone here that he heard one shot rang out almost as if it was a loud boom, a firework, a firecracker. Response was immediate. Charlie Kirk did hit the ground, we're told, and security detail appeared to immediately uh protect him, climb on top of him, and you imagine how quickly people then scattered just as a result of that that single shot, that single sound. Um, but we're told the police presence was quite significant. uh both uh you know uniformed police officers but also those who jumped into action after this particular event helping to clear the area helping to get people to safety. So the response itself seems to be pretty pretty quick. Yeah. And earlier video showed too that uh there was a person that has been arrested that was being escorted. Um we haven't gotten confir confirmation rather that a suspect is in custody but that's the part of the video that we have been seeing that someone in fact has been arrested. Yeah, we have told the custody was in suspect was in custody and we're seeing now the video there of the man in the blue shirt and spectators say that uh attention immediately went to this individual. Obviously, it's hard in a situation like that, bro. When people immediately go, "Hey, um you have to, you know, you have to hire security or whatever." You guys realize that he has the best security, right? You realize that, right? Like when you say, "Oh, Hassan, why don't you hire security when you do IRL streams?" He has the best security. Trump confirmed he's dead. He had the security. There is nothing you can do uh when you get shot by a [ __ ] sniper rifle in the neck when you're doing a public event. You understand that, right? I don't think he's he has not been pronounced dead. He is in the um he is in uh the hospital right now. Okay. I don't know how he survives this. I've seen I have seen the the video the uplose video that's circulating that they're not obviously showing here and you shouldn't see it. I promise you you don't need to see that. Okay. Um I don't know why chatters are [ __ ] lying in here but the he lost a tremendous amount of blood immediately in the moment of impact. Um the only thing that Trump has said so far and this is from Dan Scavino's account. We must all pray for Charlie Ger who has been shot. A great guy from top to bottom. God bless. Okay, it's unimaginably graphic. It is um I mean this is I don't know what else to say. I mean this is just [ __ ] terrifying. Here's CNN out and you can see a large crowd gathered there at this university in Utah. Uh folks running away uh from the scene. This is one of many videos circulating online right now that we are working to confirm. Um, but as John was saying, I mean, the challenge of securing a wide openen campus, what appears to be a courtyard there with a number of of tents for officials or or rather for uh students and and attendees to uh participate in the event. Uh, no shortage of of issues trying to secure a place like that. No, certainly not. Um, and let's go to Dhoni O Sullivan who has been to a number of these events. He's joining us now on the phone. Doni, we just saw some of the aftermath in that video. people running away. Uh an incredibly scary situation uh uh for so many people there. Um talk to us a little bit about these events, the kind of security they do or do not have and what it's like to be there. Hey Brianna. Yeah. Um I mean I think what you're seeing on your screen now is really uh normally sums up what's what these events look like. I mean minus the chaos of course but uh always very big turnout uh on college campuses. Uh Charlie Kirk has been doing this for a number of years. His organization Turning Point USA uh has been running these kind of events, hundreds of them, potentially thousands of them uh across universities really mobilizing uh the young uh conservative vote and in recent years of course specifically the young MAGA vote. Um we were actually down a few weeks ago in Tampa, Florida where Turning Point USA had their uh summit. Um and we spoke to some liberal groups, young Democrats who are actually trying to emulate the work uh Charlie Kirk's organization is doing. Uh these Democrats were of course very critical of Kirk's policies and his views on politics uh but spoke you know frankly very um um complimentary of his organizing tactics. So what you see at these events these college campus events has really been a successful model uh for mobilizing young voters. Uh in fact in just recent week wait gunman is not in custody. Campus official says uh um the the so the guy that they arrested might not be the actual gunman cuz initially campus uh campus police said the gunman was in custody that the the suspected shooter was apprehended. Now breaking news Kirk shot and gunman not in custody. Campus officials say Scott Troder senior director of public village at Utah Valley University in ORM just confirmed to the BBC that Kirk was shot and the attacker is not in custody. Troder said at 12:25 local time, a single shot rang out in the quad near the food court at Utah Valley University Om campus as Mr. Charlie Kirk began speaking at his planned rally. We can confirm that Mr. Kirk was shot, but we don't know his condition. Trotder said he added the campus is closed for the rest of the day. There's a video of them arresting an old man, but maybe that's not maybe maybe that's not the the shooter then. I don't know. I don't know what the [ __ ] to to I bet you they found no GPR on suspect at this point. Doubtful they'll find the shooter. I know Netanyahu tweeted about it as well. Look, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Chatters, there are different ways to to There are different ways beyond uh advocating for for uh violent retribution when it comes to people like this. You guys are are saying things right now that is completely [ __ ] ridiculous. Okay? You're saying things without even assuming how it reflects on yourself, how it reflects on the left, how it reflects on people like myself, uh, deliberately putting someone like myself in the [ __ ] crosshairs in the line of fire. There's never going to be a moment where I will ever advocate for [ __ ] political violence of this sort for understandable reasons. One, because it's abhorrent, and two, because it's [ __ ] you know, like what are you talking about? I need you to understand something. This could have, if it didn't happen in Utah, it could have happened in [ __ ] Dartmouth. You get it, right? It can happen anytime I go out as well. If you, you know, this is a, this is a real consideration. This is a real concern. We live in the United States of America where everyone has a [ __ ] gun. Even Charlie Kur's own assessments about like, well, gun violence is a necessary byproduct of having freedom. It doesn't mean that like, you know, this is is a cause to be [ __ ] this is a cause to be celebrated. Okay? I know that our enemies, people in Charlie Kirk's audience, for example, would be celebrating if the same thing had happened to me, okay? But it doesn't matter. Like, be more careful. If not for morality, be more careful in terms of self-preservation because political violence happens no matter what. Okay? And there will be violent retaliation as well. So, just think, okay, just think the shot came straight at him. Witness says former US congressman who was at the event with his daughter has told Fox News what happened when Kirk was shot. Everyone hit the deck scattered. Former US Representative Jason Chaffet says he calls the violence shocking. Now of course it's it is shocking but I guess in some ways it's not that shocking at all considering it's the United States of America. That's something to consider here. So where we were though it's interesting. It's kind of like a stadium. So it it was a big bowl. It was a big bowl. So it Charlie normally platforms is he just sitting on the side of like the pavement and everyone's at eye level with him. But with this he was more down lower and then everyone was around him in like this full we saw videos of um from from other people who saw the aftermath and and didn't run immediately out because we we ran straight up the wing. Um but it looked like it was an older gentleman wearing a uniform um who was taken away from Putin's custody pretty much right afterward. There was a man in his 16. And And just to be clear, Emma, you're saying that you saw that through a video because you you ran off from the scene. You didn't actually see the man being taken into custody yourself. We didn't correct. We didn't actually see the man about 10 minutes ago. 39. We found the people that we had originally interviewed with that were super happy to be there and excited and they had recorded it and so they were showing us from their phone. Right. Okay. So, you saw videos from people that you had actually talked to ahead of time who had recorded it themselves. What else did they tell you? I mean, nothing really from any of them. I think everyone's still here in so much shock. Um, the university's been completely evacuated. So, the only people left in the building are people. We have heard reports that Charlie Crook is stable and breathing. That was a couple of maybe 10 15 minutes ago. Um, are they really reporting off those Facebook? Okay, I can tell you things that I saw with my own two eyes with an absolute certainty right now. Right now, there's a lot of misinformation flying around. I myself have also uh I myself have also uh shown you some of the things that people are suspecting that was going on. But one thing I can tell you with a certainty is that Charlie Kirk got shot. It was one in the video that is readily available that is circulated. There's two different videos, one from afar and one up close. Okay? Both of the videos show that there was only one shot. Okay. Both of the videos also show that he was shot in the neck and he lost an unimaginable amount of blood and immediately after the moment of impact. He got shot near the throat and blood starts gushing out like spraying which is uh consistent with a with a what is it like the like a main artery uh a piercing through a main artery. Okay. It is very very unlikely to survive a shot such as that one. But there is no confirmation that he actually has uh there's there's no confirmation. The girl on CNN said that uh his condition is stable. There's no confirmation uh uh that that he has he has died. Okay. There's no confirmation on that whatsoever. There were only a couple of protesters who were there and they were in the balcony. The event was out in the open. I don't I assume that there wasn't like a lot of security on the campus in general. He could he could still survive. There's a very low likelihood he could still survive. Um I I don't know what the chances of survival without any sort of like significant debilitating uh lifealtering injuries. Um initially initially uh there was uh there were initial reports off campus police that stated that one shot was fired uh the speaker at the event, Charlie Kirk, was shot at and that the shooter, the suspect was apprehended. There was a video that was circulating around of an old man. There was a video that was circulating around of an old man being apprehended by police. Now, according to BBC's latest reports, the gunman is not in custody, according to campus officials. Okay. So, we don't know. We don't know if the suspect is at large, but the New York Times is now confirming that uh via school spokeswoman that the suspect is in custody. So, I don't know if something changed in in the last couple of minutes or Charlie Kirk, here's what to know. Updated three minutes ago, Charlie Kirk, the head of Turning Point USA, the nation's pre-minent right-wing youth activist organization, was shot in the neck on Wednesday while speaking at a campus event at Utah Valley University. Cell phone videos posted online showed people running from the event after a gunshot rang out. One single gunshot. One video appeared to show Mr. Head, Mr. Kirk's head jerking back as blood poured from his neck. He had been delivering remarks while sitting under a tent with the slogan the American comeback printed on it. A university spokeswoman Ellen Trinor said that Mr. Kirk was struck about 20 minutes after he began speaking on campus. She said a suspect had h had fired at Mr. Kirk from the Luzy center, a building about 200 yards away and had been taken into custody. The suspect was not a student, she said. Condition unknown. Miss Triner said Mr. Kirk security had taken him away after the shooting and she did not have any information on his condition. Andrew Kovvet, a spokesman for TPUSA, confirmed that Mr. Kirk had been shot in the neck. President Trump posted on social media in support of Mr. Kirk. Benjamin Netanyahu posted saying, "Pray for Charlie Kirk." "We must all pray for Charlie Kirk, who has been shot," he wrote on True Social. "A great guy from top to bottom. God bless him." A close ally, Mr. Kirk, 31, has emerged in recent years as one of the most influential young right-wing figures in the country and established himself as a close ally to the president. Mr. Kirk co-founded Turning Point USA in 2012 and has since become a fixture on college campuses where he hosts rallies like the one in Utah that often draw large crowds. Even though he's not part of the administration, Mr. Krook's influence in the White House is significant. Since the November election, he has helped vet prospective appointees, testing their loyalty to Mr. Trump. Okay. My own uh my own interactions with Charlie Kirk start around uh 2015 where I debated him at Politicon when he was an upstart. uh basically creating Turning Point USA as a a entity that was specifically designed to manipulate college campus elections and student government elections in general in high schools and college campuses heavily funded by Republican donor Foster Freeze who passed away. Uh and uh I I debated him publicly uh twice at Politicon in on two different occasions and I was slated to debate him uh at Dartmouth two weeks from now. We were also supposed to have a public uh we were also supposed to have a public debate two weeks from now at Dartmouth University. I say we were supposed to. I don't think that's going to happen any longer. Yes, I did see him at the DNC as well, but that's besides the point. That doesn't matter. But I have um like I've used Charlie Kirk as an example of like the way that the Republican media ecosystem works and how they prop up figure heads and how they bring in figureheads uh from the right uh directly into the the uh horizontal and vertically integrated media infrastructure that the Republican party uses, the propaganda uh outlets of the Republican party uses. is because um Charlie Kirk and and myself basically gained prominence in American politics on opposing sides uh at about the same time. and his uh his his uh his career obviously has has been explosive and uh he has u I mean he has found himself not only in charge of this uh heavily funded organization Turning Point USA uh but also has become a uh a close ally to the Trump administration twice now. It is it is actually terrifying to see what political violence is is uh uh turning up like what how much political violence is is happening in this country. It's an incredibly violent nation. Uh America is an incredibly violent nation already. It is uh everybody has a gun. This is a terrifying prospect in general. Uh so it's just I mean this is this is a a terrifying incident for a million different reasons. I worry about the repercussions of this. I think that the reverberations of of uh people seeking out vengeance uh in the aftermath of of this violent uh abhorrent incident is going to be genuinely worrisome. Of course, this is a country where children get slaughtered uh on a weekly basis by school shooters. Like I said, violence and ultraviolence in general is is a a a very common thing that takes place in this country. Um, but this is a a attempted high-profile political assassination on a on a political speaker. Um, and it's um I don't know. It's it's hard for me to it's hard for me not to see uh a close parallel here and and and worry about uh where things may go from this point on. So, um, there are at this point there is no hospital updates. Uh, but, uh, Gabby Gfords, the former Arizona congresswoman who nearly died in a 2011 assassination attempt, said she was horrified to hear that Kirk had been shot. "Democratic societies will always have political disagreements, but we must never allow America to become a country that confronts those disagreements with violence," she said on social media. As I've said before, decentralized acts of violence from adventurists happen as a direct consequence of not having a real pressure valve when there is tremendous political instability. Okay, this is the reason why the democratic process is supposed to be a pressure valve for this sort of thing uh in order to thwart these kinds of of uh incredibly violent incidents. It's not like he was a senator or the president. He was a [ __ ] influencer. What is wrong with people? It doesn't matter. He was a he was a close adviser to the president and a very visible high-profile adviser to the president. That is the reason why it's it's a massive uh it's it's you know it's it's very consequential and a lot of people are talking about including the buildings and other you know uh open spaces um because also Donald Trump literally sicked the entire [ __ ] Donald Trump sick the National Guard on DC because of big balls getting jumped by a 15-year-old teenager. one 15-year-old girl and one 15-year-old boy. What the [ __ ] do you think he's going to do after this when one of his top adviserss, the guy that he has named numerous times as a as a creditor to his success with Gen Z voters, was shot in the [ __ ] neck in Utah. Okay, this is I I don't even know where we go from this moment on. I I don't know. I don't know where we go from here. I don't know what the administration is going to do. I just don't think that um I don't think that they're going to be normal about it. Okay, so think about that. University says a suspect is in custody after Charlie Kirk was shot in an event and uh yeah, one of the biggest [ __ ] reactionary monsters out there is Elon Musk and he's already started saying the left is the party of murder. We don't know the background or the profile of the shooter. We do know that statistically speaking, the uh these sorts of political violent incidents do not actually often come from the left, but it is uh usually right-wingers, former Trump supporters themselves shooting at Trump, people who have voted for Trump shooting at Trump, you know, or attempting to assassinate Trump, obviously. I mean, and Utah is also a very right-wing uh state. We don't know. We don't got of course I'm not going to still debate him. What are you talking? How am I supposed to debate him? We don't even know if he's alive. No, Chatter, stop asking me stupid questions. Come on, man. Abby D. Phillips says, "The degree to which the algorithm on this platform is pushing video the shooting is incredibly disturbing. There has to be some human that can turn the dial down in a situation like this, you know." Yeah. The human that would turn the dial down, I don't think is interested in turning the dial down. I think I think the the uh the person that would turn the dial down is turning it up. As a matter of fact, cranking it up. Okay, this is the 46th shooting at a school this year. Guys, don't link me AF Post. We don't know yet. AF Post is not giving a a firm confirmation. Okay, just wait. Wait until there is a real news report, not from America First. I don't know how the [ __ ] I do uh public events uh going forward. Like, I just I don't know. It's just not Oh, there's another there's another angle of the video as well. Um, a third angle. Oh god. Maybe he survives this. Who knows? I don't know. I don't know how. Turning Point USA confirms the shooting. Says Kirk is in the hospital. Turning Point USA, the conservative youth organization founded by Charlie Kirk, confirmed in a statement to CNN that Kirk was shot during the organization's campus tour stop on Wednesday. This is an ongoing situation. We can confirm that Charlie Kirk has been shot. He's in the hospital and we're preparing for him at the time. Why won't anybody say that his condition is [ __ ] stable, dude? Like, I don't understand. Every single person just keeps saying he's in the hospital. They're not or confirmed dead. He is dead. Where Why Where is Where is people getting the he's dead from? I I'm I'm looking to see if it's updated and I haven't seen any any updates on this at all. Because, as I said, this was the first time he was going to be out on the road this fall. It's America first. They don't [ __ ] know in the coming months and you know Turning Point USA the group that he runs is now confirming quote Kirk has been shot. He is in the hospital and we are praying for him at the are so uh allconsuming right now and bipartisan. Everyone from President Trump and Vice President JD Vance to members of the cabinet to Democratic leaders like Hakee Jeff and Chuck Schumer bipartisan condemnation of this act of political violence. It's a reminder, Briana, that in a country like America, in a democracy, we only have a democracy if we settle our disagreements with words, not with violence. You know, for the liberals, for the for the anti-Trump voices, for the anti-girk voices out there who feel despair you about the direction of the country's politics, the way to address that is through words, not through violence. And so whenever we see one of these appalling crimes, uh, it is disturbing because it cuts to the core of how the American democracy functions. Yeah, certainly does. Turning Points USA just released a statement to CNN confirming the shooting. They say this is an ongoing situation. Kirk is in the hospital and we are praying for him at this time. David Challion and Laura Coats are with us and and David, it's important to uh state again just the significance of Kirk in politics and specifically his appeal to younger conservatives on college campuses in large part has to do with his accessibility, his desire to get out in front of a crowd and debate. Yeah. You know, it's it's hard um to hold these two things simultaneously uh when you're dealing with a story like this of of just potentially horrific just tragic political violence, unacceptable political violence in this country. The fact that he is a conservative star is central to that, right? That we're talking about political violence. And yet, and I know this is may be hard for like cable TV news viewers or uh political news consumers, everything gets so uh divided up and everybody, you know, we're in such a polarized time. So, we also have to separate out the human tragedy that's happening right here. And u the fact that this person that Charlie Kirk has devoted his career, again, I get that a lot of people watching right now may find his views abhorrent or maybe totally have worked against him politically, but the fact that he was the conservative star that he was, the fact that he was putting himself in the public spotlight to advance his beliefs and advance a movement seems to be at the very cause as to why uh he was shot today and why his family may be shattered. And again, we don't know his condition right now and our prayers should be going his way and his family's way and they are. But it's impossible in this moment that you don't want politics to be part of it at all. It is impossible to separate it because it is clearly it seems from everything we we know uh this is going to be the centerpiece of a conversation about unacceptable political violence in this country and how this country can move from this moment forward to a place where that decreases or where that is less I I think that that's the old man to America right now I think it does David I don't know if it's real or not but saying he was talking about mass shootings uh like he was answering a question about mass shootings when he got shot. And there is something about this that feels different. And yet when you I already got [ __ ] commenting in my chat in my the CDC and you start going like on my on my YouTube instantly like look this is what I mean. Okay. This is what I [ __ ] mean. Um in sort of this modern era someone going should have been him and not Kirk. It's really not like that just happened. That's a YouTube notification from literally political objectives are it's horrifying. It's horri a minute ago and and it's not it's not sustainable. It seems to me like in this in this democratic experience and experiment that we are ongoing. This is what I have to I mean I deal with this like literally every [ __ ] day of the week. I deal with this every day of the week. becomes a more increasing so it's a little bit is I'm you know it's a little bit different from the way I'm uh watching the situation okay that that is uh you know if if anything could come out of this if there's some kind of wakeup call that come out of this I know I probably sound naive saying that it would seem like we've got to find a way uh to be able to have politics in this country and differences of opinion that do not that do not end like this you know you think about the only way to break a law is if a law first exists. And this is going to recall that like only not only not even a month ago, there was a a a political commentator who said that uh they that they would justify gunning me down on the [ __ ] street that a weapon was actually there. That wasn't even a month ago. That was a couple weeks ago. So remember, America is a incredibly [ __ ] violent country. Everybody has guns. Of course, we've heard instances over the last several years. Political violence often comes from the first and the uh the marketplace of ideas rightwing in general even if it's like directed at the right or not and safety has always been top of mind. What guaranteed safety speaker and also the community at large? This will be a very bigation there. But I put my prosecutor brain on again with a suspect in custody. We sadly are a nation plagued by gun violence, but we're also plagued by sometimes the inability to have the person account for the violence that they have. Oh [ __ ] New York Times is posting it too. Charlie Kirk was scheduled to debate progressive influencer Son [ __ ] at Dartmouth College on September 25th. On his Twitch live stream, [ __ ] reacted to the news with horror, urging slow and his followers to stop making jokes about the shooting and he expressed fear that he could be similarly targeted. This is a terrifying incident. [ __ ] said the reverberation of people seeking out vengeance in the aftermath of this violent abort incident is going to be genuinely worrisome. amend or reinforce laws to ensure much like hate crime legislation that came before the idea of if there are specific aspects you are targeting of a person can increase penalties undermine the ability to actually have those crimes occur. And so this will be a part of the conversation and again we're talking about what appears to be just a you know a guess here given the facts we have a pre-meditated act. If it's premeditated, if there's only been one shot fired, not targeting any other person. This is no longer generalized violence. And that means the investigative trail begins. It is electronic. It is what was on that person's body, how many cell phones, who they communicated with, where they may have been before this, who knew about their whereabouts. Did they travel across state lines? Were there other people involved in now possibly an interstate or intrastate activity? Will the FBI be involved? Will it be a state or local aspect of it? This is at a time, of course, as you all know, David, especially about the motive from the president of the United States to ensure that crime is at an all-time low in the presence of reinforcing military officials at times to make sure that's the case. Will there be an expanded move now in that aspect of it? And if that's the case, will college campuses, which has traditionally been a a bit of a um island unto itself in terms of the ability of local law enforcement to come on, will it be treated differently? The investigation begins simultaneously when the family begins to process what it would be like to explain to these young children that daddy is hurt and will he be coming home tonight or ever? We certainly are awaiting answers as to his medical condition. At Turning Point, USA official says Charlie Kirk is at the hospital, but it doesn't look good. Confirmed Kirk was shot in the neck. This from Jennifer J. Jacobs, CBS News senior White House reporter. Um, here's a video of the old man being walked away in cuffs. Footage showing the person who allegedly shot Charlie Kirk being taken into custody. As of now, we have no firm confirmation that this was the actual shooter. For the record, this is just a this is just footage of a suspect being apprehended. I'm going to repeat once again, this is footage of a suspect being apprehended. It's the same old guy that we saw earlier as well. We don't I mean, look, in a normal environment, if we lived in normal times, if we had a normal, responsible government and not a bunch of [ __ ] psychopaths running the show, they would look at this incident and go, "We have to actually take serious precautions and we have to look at gun control seriously." Okay. Charlie Kirk himself as an adviser to the Trump administration and as a mouthpiece for uh a lot of the the most reactionary right-wing sentiments being expressed in this country has routinely talked about how gun violence is a unfortunate but necessary side effect of having the freedom of the second amendment. Okay. quite literally he has verbalized his opinions on this issue with the with the false notion with the false assumption that it might not ever happen to him. Okay. And in a moment like this in a moment like this a reasonable government would say all right enough is enough. Okay. But one that hasn't said that in the aftermath of Sandy Hook is most likely not going to say that in the aftermath of this incident as well, especially considering that there are school shootings happening with regular frequency. As I've said already, the Charlie Kirk shooting is the 46th school shooting that has taken place this year. 46. Yes, he said this. Charlie Kirk says gun death's unfortunately worth it to keep the Second Amendment. You only say this if you don't think that you will ever be a victim to such political violence. Okay, I very much understand that this is a a constant reality for the record. Both political violence and just gun violence in general. Okay, there has been a 47th now a freshman in the same county as Coline. Jesus Christ. There is another school shooting happening as this took place. Wait, what? Multiple people shot at Evergreen High School in Jefferson County. Okay. Well, this is also breaking news. I'm not going to go into it, but um AP says he's in critical condition. Is that what it is? Uh Kirk Okay. Associated Press has an update. Says Kirk is being treated and is in critical condition. A law enforcement official briefed on the shooting told the Associated Press. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss the matter. Kirk co-founded Turning Point USA in 2012 at the age of 18 and soon became a regular presence on cable TV where he leaned into the culture wars and helped praise on then President Trump. I urge I urge people on the opposing side of American politics to really reconsider. Yeah, I saw I got a mention in the New York Times. I know. Um because I was slated to debate him uh in in two weeks. For the people who keep saying, for the people who keep saying, "Brother, you need to get security." Um, you need to understand Charlie Kirk had security. He had a lot more security than I have ever had. I don't usually have security at all. Okay? I don't have any security when I go out to these sorts of events. I've done uh numerous public speaking engagements. I never bring security on purpose. It shouldn't be like this. It shouldn't have to be like this. And the reality of the matter is this is a systematic problem. This is a systemic issue. Okay? Charlie Kirk had security. What do you do when someone is shooting at you from 200 yards away? Do you understand? That's why you have to solve this issue with good governance. I don't know what will happen with Dartmouth. I am not in contact with them. I've already informed my management on uh on on obviously Charlie Kirk getting shot. Uh so we'll we'll see what takes place. Now I don't think that I I sus I know that it's not going to be with Charlie, but I don't know if there's going to be an event at Dartmouth at all. We shall see. And before people say wear a bulletproof vest again, he got shot in the neck. A bulletproof vest would not have saved Charlie Kirk. Okay, security did not save Charlie Kirk. The only thing that could have potentially saved Charlie Kirk from getting shot in the neck was if our administrations prior to this one and this one as well actually had reasonable gun control as a policy provision in the immediate aftermath of I don't know a hundred other school shootings that took place. This is why I keep responding over and over again to people that go, "Hey man, why don't you get security? Hey man, why don't you get a vest?" There's nothing, none of those things, none of those things will save you. Okay? This isn't like like before people say, "Oh, man, you know, you're making this political or whatever," but like this is an issue. I need you to understand this is an issue that is obviously very close to myself considering that not only have I uh not only do I engage in public speaking with regular frequency at events as a very visible political commentator who just yesterday was uh called a terrorist and a 9/11 lover by the former governor of New York. Okay. There is a lot of there is a lot of tuning up and and uh you know there's a lot of agitation that I uh receive. I receive death threats with regular frequency. All this stuff is is is very close to the chest. Okay. And there is not really anything you can do here aside from just not doing any [ __ ] uh public speaking engagements. There's not really anything you can do here aside from uh you know existing in a more secure society, one that has significant restrictions on who can have guns. That's it. He had a 10-man private security detail for this event along with campus and local police. Not fully confirmed though. No, I know he has mad security. I know. But what do you do regardless in that situation where someone fires from 200 yd away and shoots Charlie Kirk directly in the neck. There is nothing you can do in that situation. There's nothing I would be able to do in that situation. It's just a matter of luck. It makes me consider that all of the incidents that have taken place thus far uh where where you know I don't know what if they didn't what anyway the reason why I'm mentioning this is not to be like I'm not going to have security or I'm not going to take even more necessary precautions in the future. Of course I will. But the reason why I'm mentioning this is because like Charlie Kirk did take those necessary precautions. Okay? And now he's in critical condition at a hospital. So one must ask the question why. One must ask the question how we got here. And if you personally think it's just because you know kids met, I guess, well there are ways to prevent this. There are ways to prevent this. Not just for Charlie Kirk, but for the little school kids, the parents that are worried every day when they send their children to kindergarten, to school, to church. You shouldn't have to think about potentially being a victim to a mass shooting when you're out in public. That is insane. That's insane. So, I'm reporting from the ground. I can't I can't see it, but I think I have Fox here. Anyway, [ __ ] man. The Charlie Kirk shooting is terrible, and I'm more broadly afraid that we're in a period of rising vigilante violence. I don't know what you can do other than condemn it, regardless of who's responsible. Yeah. Key key political violence and resilience trends from 2024. Yes, I know. The New York Times mentioned me. I know. Charlie Kirk was scheduled to debate progressive influencer [ __ ] at Dartmouth College on September 25th on his Twitch live stream. I I was supposed to debate him two weeks from now at Dartmouth University. This is why I'm saying it's a it's a you know I have a a closeness to the incident. First they said they wanted to interview me and then as things took while they were just like hey just give me your number and then sent me on my way. So pretty. Anybody else? Yeah it was. Well Wesley thank you very much get your thoughts there. So, we've heard from a number now of witnesses that have me and others that have interviewed of people that were inside there or I should say outside because it is outdoor venue when the shots were fired when Charlie Kirk was shot. That's what we've got here from the west side of UVU campus. We'll continue to be here, but we'll send it for now back to you Brooke and Tam in the studio. Daniel Woodruff reporting live from UVU campus where earlier today Charlie Kirk was shot. And we are hearing from the AP who has confirmed that Charlie Kirk is in critical condition at a hospital again after being shot at this event held at UVU. And though we don't know any other medical details on that, I think that's an exhale for a lot of people right now. A report of critical condition. Uh the shot was fired. He he recoiled. Bystanders describe him recoiling and immediately falling to the ground. It was quite a visual traumatic visually traumatic scene. Uh but that's the latest update we can give is that he is in critical condition. Uh Dan Rasone is live there on the campus of Utah Valley University. Dan, orient to as as to where you are. Yeah, pretty incredible scene out here as far as talking to students, but let me give you a little idea as to where we're at here. Many of you, of course, know where the UCCCU center is at. We're just north of it right here. You can see all the traffic here. people trying to get out of this location. Traffic completely backed up. A lot of cops, a lot of officers from a variety of different uh agencies all out here trying to be able to kind of lock down the campus, of course. And we've been hearing from students all along here. Many of these students right here, all these students have their own story. Let's start at the end here and kind of get your reaction. It's Ike, did you say? Okay, Ike. Tell me a little bit about what where you were at, how close you were, and what you saw. Yeah. So, I was about 20 yards off the right hand side of Charlie. Um, obviously, uh, it's a traumatic thing. Nobody should have to see that in their lifetime. The taking of a life is is hurtful, um, and hard to see, but, you know, we were talking about he was having a conversation with somebody about gun violence actually. Um, and he was hit in kind of the left um, upper neck area, kind of in the corateed artery area and it was just a traumatic thing to see. I feel bad for all these wonderful students and alumni that have to that were present and had to see that. It's a tough thing to see, but obviously it's a very serious thing that we need to all be able to work through and and work through together as a community and come together and really rally around Charlie and his family. Nobody should have to worry about their father or husband um going out and doing the things that he loves. And that's a tough thing to see. How many shots did you hear and what happened right after he was hit? What did it what was the mood of the crowd? Yeah. Um, one shot rang out. Um, from what I hear, I don't know if anybody else are different. One shot rang out and hit Charlie, struck Charlie. And I don't know if it's angels or or good bystanders who jumped in and stopped more shots from coming, but I'm grateful that that if uh somebody did, they deserve high praise. Um, one shot hit Charlie, one shot. Here, this is a video of the alleged the alleged shooter. me. We don't know if it's him or not. He says, "We don't know if it's him or not." I don't understand what took place here. Like, I I don't the the the profile of the suspect is just like, it makes no [ __ ] sense. Yeah. He says, "Shoot me." While he's uh being taken away by law enforcement. Where the [ __ ] is the Where's the gun? We don't know anything. Let him in. Hey, leave. Um, the Desireette, the Desireette News article is probably not as up to date if they're saying the suspect is not in custody because everything that I have seen so far, everything that I've seen so far from uh mainstream outlets has been that the suspect is in custody. I I and I have no reason to believe that that is not the suspect considering that that's what the media is presenting is at presenting it as. Obviously, we are going to be uh awaiting uh some kind of report from the police that will give us more details. It's important to wait in these moments to get like verified information, but we'll see. Um he's Mormon, too. Those were garments. Oh, he had the he had the Mormon underwear on cuz they they um his his pants fell off while they were moving him around. I don't know if they wore the the Mormon underwear. "Young people who attended the recent Turning Point events expressed alarm about Wednesday shooting at Charlie Kirk in Utah. It's absolutely sickening," said Ella Gedry, who has gone to several TP conferences, including a summit for young conservative women. For people who follow him, it's reminiscent of the one day in Butler, Pennsylvania. She said a reference to the attempted assassination. I wonder if these guys are going to like put two and two together, by the way, about like the the uh ready availability of weapons and how all it takes is just one [ __ ] person, you know? They just it seems like they're not. It seems like they're they're um able to compartmentalize this as a totally separate thing as though this is uh the type of violent incident that is uh you know uh unfortunate but always going to happen and has nothing to do with like the increased likelihood of political violence taking place with weapons because you can just like purchase an arsenal of gear to to do things like this. People then turn around and say, "Oh my god, um you know, I feel so safe when I'm in uh Japan, when I'm walking the streets." And it's like, yeah, you feel safe when you're walking the streets of Japan because they don't have guns. Like, that's a major part of the the reason. Okay. There's just the the people that you are around are not uh at any given moment could could take out a weapon and shoot you. I know a lot of people have said the county he was in had a lot of extreme Z supporters along with Infowars dude a few weeks ago saying Charlie Kirk was concerned about it. Z supporters? What does that even mean? The old dude isn't the shooter according to New York Times. New York Times confirms that the person in custody is not the shooter. I'm so confused. So the person is not in custody. What? The police have determined that a person who was taken into custody after the shooting was not actually the shooter according to Scott Troder, a university spokesman. This is two minutes ago. The university had earlier said a suspect was in custody and video showed an older man being detained by police officers. Oh, Russia supporters like Z as in Russia. Russian supporters. A previous person they interviewed on Fox said the guy they arrested is someone he knows named George and that George was a was poor but wouldn't shoot someone. Major English esquire. Like I said, big balls getting beat up. Big balls getting beat up triggered uh a military occupation of DC. So, I don't know what is going to happen in the aftermath of this. Obviously, I don't think that Trump is going to sick the National Guard of the military onto Utah. Utah is a red state. So, that actually complicates things from his perspective a little bit. But, I could totally see him enacting vengeance on every college campus um in in blue states specifically. Check the CNN article again. He was talking about transgender shooters right before he was shot. According to the CNN article, Charlie Kirk was answering a question about transgender mass shooters in America seconds before he was shot. The exchange goes as follows. Audience member, do you know how many transgender Americans have been mass shooters over the last 10 years? Charlie Kirk, too many. The same audience member went on to say the number is five. And proceeded to ask if Kirk knows how many mass shooters there are have been in America over the last 10 years. Counting or not counting gang violence. Seconds later, the sound of a pop is heard and the crowd screams as Kirk gets shot and recoils in his seat. Crazy. Just last week, you were watching a video about him, too. Brother, it's not even watching a video about Charlie Kirk. I was supposed to be at a public event alongside Charlie Kirk where I was supposed to debate Charlie Kirk 2 weeks from now. And if you were un unaware of that, and that is because I usually don't [ __ ] uh promote this kind of stuff ahead of time for obvious reasons. The old man is a Hinckley Institute frequenter according to a friend of mine who goes to U of currently. He's a conservative and my source says it wouldn't make sense. I mean, it doesn't seem like that person is the one who actually did it anyway. Yeah. While this is taking place, apparently there's also another high school shooting that's taking place in Colorado as well. Obviously, I'm not going to get into it until we uh we have more details, but the conservative commentator Glen Beck told Megan Kelly on her live YouTube show that his daughter was at the event where Kirk was shashi confirmed on Instagram that she was about 10 feet away and saw everything. Grums is replying to your tweets insinuating that you wanted this. Dude, why would I [ __ ] want this? I literally have debated him publicly. I was supposed to debate him two weeks from now. Why the [ __ ] would I ever want this? Are you stupid? Do you think I want to die? Do you think I'm suicidal? What are you dumb? I'm a [ __ ] political commentator that gets death threats every [ __ ] day, a million times a day. People call me a terrorist up and down the internet. I do public events all the time. Do you think I do you think I think this is good? Like think for a moment, even if you even political ideologies aside, okay, think for a brief moment. Does this person have self-preservation? Me, do I have self-preservation? Do I think about things uh like this potentially happening? Is this not on the back of my mind? For example, it is. People are actively because we are so desensitized to violence in general in this country, the one country where this just keeps happening over and over again. People now don't even wait. There's no thoughts. There's no prayers. they just immediately go, who is my immediate enemy that I can shift the blame over to? How can I redirect the conversation? How can I redirect the conversation immediately back to not like a reasonable solution uh and and and ways to potentially prevent this sort of thing from happening, but instead, how can I move this conversation back to um an enemy that I have online, for example, without even considering what that implies? [ __ ] will blame anything but a lack of gun control. Omar Fate had a good response. The shooting of Charlie Kirk is horrifying. We cannot normalize or condone violence of any kind, especially across political differences. Minneapolis has been recently impacted and traumatized by a similar disregard for life. Gun violence must end. It doesn't matter how despicable you find people. Okay, it's obviously this is obviously a incredibly dangerous precedent. Kla Harris, the former vice president, said on social media she was deeply disturbed by the shooting of Kirk. I condemn this act and we must all work together to ensure this does not lead to more violence. Um where is the as far as the the shooter whether he's in the c whether he's in custody or not? Like I haven't I don't understand. They keep going back and forth on whether or not the shooter is in custody or not in custody. The police have determined that the person who was taken into the custody after the shooting was not actually the shooter according to Scott Troder University spokesman. So I think like the old um the the old person that they apprehended might not have been the shooter after all. I don't insane that the closer video has 4 million views on Twitter and is still up. Yes, of course. Of course. Because the owner of the website, Elon Musk, is a right-wing psychopath who wants to tune up political violence to 11. He has already used this as an opportunity to say clearly it's a leftist that did this. Leftist violence is out of control. And for many people, that's all they need. They need like bias confirmation of this sort. Suspect not yet in custody is an insane statement. by the way. Like I don't understand. So So the did the dude get away? Is he at large? What the [ __ ] is going on? This is one of the most televised and filmed events of all [ __ ] time. So the very fact that they are not So the very fact that they are not actually able to figure out what the [ __ ] took place here is is crazy to me. Yes, he was sniped from 200 yards away. 200 yards away. What is this? Utah speaker Mike Schultz confirms Charlie Kirk is dead. Bringham Tomco, politics reporter of Desireette, says Charlie Kirk, two sources tell me Charlie Kirk is confirmed dead or 200 feet, not 200 yards. Audio the footage is not Oh, it's 200 feet. It was not a sniper. It sounded like a handgun. Initially, they said, "Wait, what? There's a new version of this post that was from an hour ago. Utah speaker Mike Schultz confirms Charlie Kirk is dead. last edited two minutes ago. I mean, I'll await more I'll await further confirmation. It's a rifle. You don't hit a shot like that with a handgun. Yeah, that's virtually impossible. I mean, it's it's it could because it's a bullet, you know? A bullet is a bullet, but it would have to be like an insane an insanely unlikely It's just impossible. Like, it's virtually impossible. It just doesn't It's ridiculous. CNN is reporting that the suspect who shot Charlie Kirk did so from 200 yards away. I don't know. I I don't it if that's true, it means he was further away than the Trump assassin in Pennsylvania and further away than Lee Harvey Oswwell was when he shot Kennedy. I there it must be 200 It must be 200 feet and not 200 yard, right? Like 200 yards is like I mean that's an insane shot. That's like historic, right? Am I crazy? How many football fields is that? Two football fields length. Yeah. No, that's But if it also is But if it's also 200 f feet away, then I feel like they would have apprehended the shooter instantly. You know what I mean? And the initial reporting, I think, said 200 uh uh the initial reporting said 200 yards. I'm pretty sure uh the the university spokesperson and and a lot of people uh a lot of the original reporting said 200 yards and and the very fact that they were not able to apprehend New York Times is uh the New York Times reporting said 200 yards but now NBC is saying 200 feet but I don't know we have no information we have no information at the time about um who the shooter was uh what weapon they used. Uh I will obviously update as we get more information, but so far there is no additional information about any of those things. You have a lot of traffic backup migrating out. Uh these uh two students here decided to chat with us for a minute. They are just waiting out the wait, which is uh quite long. And I appreciate you being willing to talk with us. Austin Watson, Sierra Arbon. Uh you were there uh this afternoon. Just just tell me how it went down from your eyes. Um, I mean it was it was pretty chaotic with all the people. There was hundreds and hundreds of people in attendance that were just listening. I mean he had a huge support here. Everyone was cheering for him. There was obviousness of protesters too. Um, and then it was it was honestly pretty hard to hear. So I guess what had happened was someone asked him a question about about gun violence and then we heard a shot and for a second it was like it didn't even feel like it was like actually happening. and he almost sounded like a firecracker. And then from where I was standing, I was a little bit I wasn't right up next to him, but I saw him double over and then everybody like went down to the ground. And then after a few seconds, it was just like a sea of people just trying to get out of there. And yeah, there's videos you can see online. There's just everyone's coming out full speed and there's phones on the ground, AirPods, like every everyone's just leaving all their stuff and it was pretty chaotic. So it was it was it was crazy. Sar, you were watching that. What went through your mind as you as this was just happening? Um, a lot of things were going through my mind. Um, I was thinking about how I wasn't supposed to be there today and how I was supposed to be at work, but then it got cancelled. Um, and I like I was scared. It was a scary situation. But kind of along the same lines as Austin, I thought at first that it was a firecracker and then I realized that that was a gunshot cuz I'm short, so I didn't see above the crowd. I couldn't really see Charlie when it happened, but um yeah, it was scary. What interested you most about Charlie Kirk and why you came out today? Um well, I would say he's just an interesting person. I honestly haven't listened to a ton of his stuff, but I knew that he is like a pretty strong conservative Republican figure and I lean more that way. So, I just was interested to see what questions other students at UVU had to ask and what his response would be to them is really it. Austin, you followed him a little bit more. Tell me just your thoughts. Yeah. No, I mean, I I really respect Charlie as a person. He's a great person. He's a family guy, good Christian. Like, he has strong beliefs. They chatted a lot about religion at right before it happened. And I mean, there was only one question before he got before the shooting. But I I really think he's a a great person and he he sticks up for what he believes in and I respect that and I enjoy watching him debate people. He knows what he's talking about and he comes from a state of logic and and I respect that a lot. And so I' I've I've watched his videos for a while for years now, honestly. So I think yeah, he's a he's a really interesting person. I was pretty excited to hear that he was coming to Utah so that he could see, you know, what what Utah's about and have his support group here because I know a lot of people really respect him here. So, it's pretty sad that it had to happen here. Well, I was going to say just the fact that there was a shooting, he was shot and an event like this. Your thoughts about that? Honestly, it's it's kind of shocking just seeing how many hundreds and hundreds of people were there in support of him. And, you know, I I think it's really sad. I think people are trying to prove a point. It didn't change my right to bear arms at all. And so it's I mean it seems like it was kind of for nothing. And I think people just want recognition and they want to think they're they're doing something in support of their beliefs. And I think that's pretty messed up. So Austin Watt, Sierra Arbon, I appreciate you being willing to chat with me for a few minutes. Everybody just trying to take this in what happened here uh at UVU. And of course trying to get away from campus is going to take a while. If I can actually just push the camera over here. I didn't prep Stuart for this, but if you look over here, there's this line of cars. And so, it's going to take a while. Just getting in here is tough. Getting out of here is tough. Some people just wanting to sit it out because uh there is no easy way out of campus as it has been closed. And as police, as we've seen, have been sweeping the grounds here. Uh so, we're going to change positions from where we are. We'll bring you more, but uh toss it back to the studio for now. All right, Andrew. Thank you for that update. We have an important update that we want to bring you now. Earlier uh this is NBC reporting that the university had confirmed a suspect in the shooting uh a suspect in the shooting of Charlie Kirk is not in custody. So the shooter who reportedly shot is at large. I mean we don't know. Um but Donald Trump spoke to New York Post. I asked Trump about how Charlie Kirk is doing. He's not doing well. He said on the phone it looks very bad. How Trump is feeling not good. He was a very very good friend of mine and he was a tremendous person bro. He's talking in the past tense. He's talking in the [ __ ] past. Prove me wrong, tour, we understand he is in critical condition. We are um checking in with our news specialist that we have out there on campus. Let's go ahead and check in with Jod Reosa right now. You are in one of the parking lots near where this event was taking place and had had a a chance to talk to some folks who were there and witnessed this. That is correct. In fact, we are still seeing such heavy traffic as everybody has mentioned before. Here is an egress right here. Pretty much every artery going in and out of campus is just packed. Um because right here it looks like, oh, maybe there's a lull in traffic. Nope. You turn this way. I'm having Greg turn this way. And you have a whole line of traffic trying to exit. And parking lots right now I'm seeing they're packed because of some students just wanting to kind of, you know, wait it out, see what's happening. Now, let me point you to the direction. students are telling us that in between these buildings. So you see on the right side there's like these little America dude gun burger gun burger capital everyone pickups parking lots guns killings everything everything is gun everything is burger everything is parking lot everything is [ __ ] cars oh my [ __ ] lord I'm going to lose my goddamn mind and as you mentioned before I do have two students these are unique students in that they are high school students okay they are at Cedar Valley in their senior year they were just here on campus though to take a test so I'm here with writer Warner and Kylie Staer. Okay. Ryder, let's start with you. Tell us like what was going on cuz you were there at the venue when it first happened. Yes, ma'am. We were driving past it. So, when we passed it, obviously you have all the news cameras, all the cameras pointing towards him, all the students rushing in to go and see what's going on. So, we got to witness that and uh you know, just a normal talk by Charlie Kirk. It was kind of cool to see Charlie Kirk here. You know, we watch him on TV a lot. Uh watch his clips a lot on YouTube, whatnot. So, it was cool to see that. Um, I was in a rush for a test, so I didn't get to stop and see, but I did get to see the venue. It was super pretty. Whole student body was there. It was super pretty to see. Um, got here and it seemed like everything was in chaos. They uh, were super hesitant about letting us test. Before we get to the test though, I want to just take us back to where you were in the venue cuz you said you actually witnessed the shooting. Mhm. Yeah. So, when they shot it was uh, I wasn't actually there. I just saw it afterwards. The aftermath uh the cops rushing up the helicopters flying in. Um I just saw videos afterwards. It was probably too Charlie Kirk I mean Newsm not Newsmax Real America's Voice uh is is saying that he's passed away. Trump is talking about Charlie Kirk uh in in the past tense. Um this guy didn't even see the incident by the way. He just saw it on the news. Okay. It's no different than like asking someone like you know any number of different chatters in here. People got down in waves when a shot was fired. Witness says Andrew Piss Cadllo was standing in the middle of the campus amphitheater on Wednesday waiting for the uh waiting to debate Charlie Kirk about the eth amendment when a single shot rang out. It was surprising no one really got down until the people in the front of the stage did. Mr. Pisscadlow 28 of Salt Lake City said in a phone interview people got down in waves. He had been in line at the campus event at Utah Valley University waiting to speak and debate Mr. Kirk as students typically do in the so-called prove me wrong debates that Mr. Kirk a right-wing activist host. Confirmations are coming in slowly. I mean this is global eye news, but I it's just it's um I I I saw I obviously saw Utah Speaker Mike Schultz confirm Charlie Kirk is dead uh a while back from Brigham Tomco who is the politics reporter at Desireette News. Uh, so we don't have we don't have confirmation yet, but uh we don't have confirmation yet, but like it is all I'm [ __ ] saying is it is it is very very very unlikely that he survived that um shot to the neck uh after what I saw. I I don't you know I just don't understand I don't see how uh that that happens. The speaker's tweet didn't say anything about him being dead. Yeah, I mean we don't we don't know. We don't know. I think a lot of people are just basically running off of they they want to be first to market. I'm not giving you a full confirmation until we see it. Okay. I don't know what just the news is like OSEN accounts and things like that are are uh utterly irrelevant in this. Um they could be right but it doesn't matter until there is a until there is a real firm confirmation. than you know, I mean, look, mainstream accounts right now are even uh reporting incorrect information like the old man that was arrested being the suspect, the potential shooter, and then turning around and saying he was not the shooter and and uh that the shooter was actually all we know is he's in critical condition at the moment right now. That's the that's the last piece of verifiable evidence that's come out. Uh, I I know that his Charlie Kirk's own news broadcaster, conservative online channel, Real America's Voice, is saying uh that he's dead, but I just I'm not going to I'm not going to to rush to that conclusion. But here's BBC's uh uh additional breaking news reporting. Person in custody has been released. According to CBS News's reports, university spokesman says that the person who was taken into custody after the shooting has since been released, which means that they did like it seems like they don't have shooter. So, does that does that imply that the the actual shooter is at large? What does that mean? There's a chance to save an individual, but so many factors at play medically in terms of uh GSW triage. I know the New York Post White House reporter asked Trump about it and he spoke about him in the past tense. Not good. He was a very very good friend of mine and he was a tremendous person. That's what he said. How do they have so much security but they can't find the shooter? I don't know because I mean if if someone is capable of of shooting from a distance like that and they hadn't accounted for uh any sort of like counter snipers or anything like that which of course there's no expectation that they should. Why should they? You know, this is not the [ __ ] president. And even the president with uh with sniper cover still almost got killed. I think we're forgetting like when he was campaigning, he almost got [ __ ] killed. Spectator index says he's pronounced dead, but we don't know yet. We don't know yet. The way his body position was after shots like he went uh decorticate, which means his spine may have been trans uh transected by the bullet, which means instant death. You are not wrong. This would be hard to survive. We don't know yet. He he might have he he might have looked like that because he was grabbing the microphone. You don't know. There's a lot of different things you can't tell from just looking at that that footage. Okay, you we have to wait. Like I'm telling you, it does make sense. I mean, look, the assumption is that he is is dead. The assumption is that he passed away. it. That's an understand that's a reasonable conclusion to make if you have seen if you if you saw the close-up shot of him being uh uh being shot in the neck. But we don't have any certainty on the distance of the shooter. We don't know what weapon was used in the shooting. We don't know who the shooter is. The person that they suspected of being the shooter, the old man, was apprehended and then released. And uh the official uh the officials have said that he's not the uh officials have said that he is not the the uh suspect. AP is reporting that there is a new suspect. Justin, person taken into custody after Charlie Kirk was shot in Utah is not believed to be the shooting suspect. Wait, is there a new suspect that was taken in? Where did you see that? 2 minutes ago. It says person taken into custody after Charlie Kirk was shot in Utah is not believed to be the shooting suspect. You misunderstood. No, no new suspect. CNN is also reporting that he was not the shooter. Yeah. Yes. His Wikipedia page is updated to say he died, but that doesn't mean that that's a confirmation. Chatters, I can't believe that. I can't believe the incompetence of everything. Uh, everyone involved here as well. Oh, Jesus, the [ __ ] audio is busted. I mean, I I I assume that he mo it's virtually impossible for him to survive that the word that's around. I I some people may be afraid. I I don't think that most people are like like hunkering down or or you know fear fearing for their life. But when the cops, you know, when the police say, you know, could you stay in your homes? You can keep your doors locked. They need to probably do that more to stay out of their way. But yeah, I'm very very curious. I'm I mean, you you probably have a way better information source. I I really feel like I'm a little bit isolated uh here. Uh lots of phone calls and and lots of communication going on, but um all of it so much hearsay. No, of course. And uh we're of course reporting out with the official authorities, but as you were someone who was there, who was with Charlie Kirk uh today, um Phil, before I let you go, uh I know it's been a I'm sure incredibly difficult day for you. Um what are your reflections? What were the LA what were the things that Charlie Kirk uh said to you uh before this tragedy unfolded? So again talking to talking to Charlie for for the you know the 15 seconds that we that we thought uh he remembered he remembered having met me before and we said and I told him who I was and it's like oh of course of course and I said glad to have you here in Utah and he just said yeah it's a great day it's great to great day to be in Utah and um you know again and all the kids are that's where his attention was. It's not on old guys like me. He was there to really pump up the college kids and he was doing that. It's fun to watch him. Yeah. Like I say, he's taller and better looking than time I every time I see him like he's really tall and Yeah. very very friendly. Very nice. All right. Phil Lyman, a former Utah state representative who of course was with Charlie Kirk today. I want to thank you very much for taking some time with us. I really appreciate it. I think now our Jeff Zelony. Yeah. Ed in Jermentum says, "This is the one case where farright news farright new media outlets are going to have the info quicker than the mainstream news and they're all saying that he's dead. I'm not I know that they're all saying that he's dead. Trump is speaking about Charlie Kirk in the past tense. I'm not going to give you an official confirmation until there is an official confirmation. That's it." Okay? It's just there is there is very very very low likelihood that he survives something like that. especially not a medical expert at all, but I just saw the amount of blood I saw gushing out of his neck on the moment of [ __ ] impact. It It makes me feel it makes me feel as though it's um you know, it's it's super unlikely. I mean, that was that was a [ __ ] ton of blood in literally less than a [ __ ] second. We know that he's in uh he's in the hospital so far and the official reporting from the hospital is that he is in critical condition uh which is of course expected. Um the scourge of gun violence and political violence must end. The shooting of Charlie Kirk is the latest incident of this chaos and it must stop. We cannot go down this road. There's no place for it in America. We wish for his recovery. A doctor pronounces someone dead. Not the news. Yeah. No, that's what I'm saying. But the news will report once the doctor has pronounced someone dead. Do you not understand? That's why I'm saying I'm I'm waiting for official confirmation unlike any other. And I attended many of his rallies during the campaign. And he attracted um Oh, you're quoting newsroom. Oh my god. Gross. Aaron Zorgon. Really? Again, 31 years old. Casey, I can tell you the president, the White House watching this very, very carefully. I've been talking to a Turning Point USA official was on the ground in Utah. Uh they are um considerably worried about this moment. All in shock of course and in disbelief. But uh President Trump uh is a friend of Charlie Kirk. So at some point we will obviously hear uh from him as well as the afternoon moves into the evening. But there is no one like Charlie Kirk in terms of his um his assistance getting President Trump re-elected. And that was clear. I'm thinking back to inauguration day. Charlie Kirk was seated in the Capitol Rotunda. He was a key part of the president's re-election effort and a very good friend of Donald Trump Jr.'s. Why was um why was Luigi's shooting celebrated, but this is tragic? Uh couple different reasons. I think uh there are a lot of people who have some semblance of like parasocial connection to Charlie Kirk, which is as weird as it sounds, it's a public event. Um, it is at a school and Charlie Kirk is not seen as uh as someone who is like responsible for the social murder of of tens of thousands of Americans. You know what I mean? So, those are probably some of the reasons why. Um, and for the record, there are a [ __ ] ton of people celebrating this as well. I'm I'm not for obvious reasons. I think you I think people here have the capacity to understand why, you know, it's just like I'm going to keep repeating this over and over again, but like this is this is the ultimate fear. Okay, for for a political commentator, this is it. This is the thing that you don't want happening. Okay, this is the thing that you never want happening. This is what a lot of people fantasize happening to me all the [ __ ] time and say they will do to me all the [ __ ] time. Obviously, um especially when it especially because it's Charlie Kirk, someone who I have uh who I know personally um I'm not, you know, fond of his worldview obviously, but someone who I have debated in public settings numerous occasions since 2015 and also someone who I was slated to debate at Dartmouth University two weeks from now. Do you understand? New York Post confirmed the death. I mean, we Whoa, whoa, whoa. [ __ ] Christ. They immediately They're hosting a press conference. When is this starting? Anyway, they will Trump announced his death. The great and even legendary Charlie Kirk is dead. No one understood or had the heart of the youth in the United States of America better than Charlie. He was loved and admired by all, especially me. And now he's no longer with us. Melania, and my sympathies go out to his beautiful wife, Erica, and family. Charlie, we love you. That's it. That's it. Trump had to be the one who to announce this. That's uh that's as close to an official confirmation as you're going to get. He's dead. Charlie Kirk is killed. Charlie Kirk. Wow. That's This is insane. This [ __ ] so crazy. 2 minutes ago. This is from Trump's official truth social, by the way. This is crazy. I don't know if Trump is the best source. No, he is the best source. What are you talking about? They Dude, as as as uh as insane as the uh as as crazy as the things are, it would be Trump that announces that he's dead. That is the most Trump administration thing that could have possibly happened. First, the information is revealed. First, the information is revealed to uh close friends. uh it leaks out to close friends and family and immediately starts getting reported on by you know one American news and stuff like that but then the official confirmation must come from go out to his beautiful wife Erica and family CNN is now reporting Trump is has announced that Charlie Kirk is dead telling us at this hour that Charlie Kirk has died Kirk was shot at a event at Utah at Valley University earlier today. Shortly after noon, according to the university, there was a single shot that rang out. He was shot in the neck. And now the president of the United States, someone that Charlie Kirk was close to, is reporting that he has died. I want to bring in Kristen Holmes. She is live for us at the White House. Again, Kristen, um we are of course mourning uh Charlie Kirk. This is a man who he was 31 years old. He had two very small children uh three and one uh ages I believe. Uh he is someone who was very close to the president of the United States, close to the Trump family. Uh someone who played a critical role if you talk to people around the president in the president winning his second term. Those close to us, we of course uh read the statement that just came through from President Trump. It's a very somber mood here. People are very upset. It's not just at the White House. It's really among Republicans as a whole. The Republican party has become the party of Trump, the MAGA movement. And Charlie Kirk was really part of all of that. Kirk spokesman says with huge portion of Trump's win in 2024. He was on the ground. He created an entire system to get young voters out and excited, enthusiastic about Trump. And it's not just as though he was some kind of outside influencer. He was very close to the president himself. I know specific examples of times that the two of them went back and forth over various issues when Charlie thought something was important to the MAGA base. He brought it to the president's attention. There are some people who believe that Charlie had his finger on the pulse of Trump's base more than even some of his own cabinet officials. He had a huge following and again was so close to the family to President Trump himself. And one of the things, you know, I continue to bring up is the fact that there was a lot of conversation during the transition as to potentially making Charlie Kirk part of the administration. But the ultimate decision was that he was more influential, had more power outside of being in a government position. He had been in Washington a number of times. He had been here with his family. He went to swearing ins of numerous Bro, how the [ __ ] do they not have the shooter? I can't comprehend this. Okay, one of the most like televised events. Okay, this is a this is an incident on a college campus. Everyone's got a [ __ ] smartphone. Everyone like I mean I guess the shooter uh shot from a distance, but like god damn, dude. That is crazy. That is crazy. He's It's over. Oh, I don't like what what is going to happen in the aftermath of this actually going to also make a statement other than this truth social post. I know that they are in touch still with everyone close to Charlie's family uh with the with his team at Turning Point with the team around him uh just trying to make sense of what happened. But I I will tell you I talked to again a number of officials within the administration who are close to President Trump who who just can't wrap their head around what happened earlier today. Yeah, I I already of course I know the New York Times reported stand by for us as we continue to cover this story. I I want to bring back our Scott Jennings. Uh Scott, the New York Times posted what I said after uh he got shot somebody that you knew. Um, what are your reflections uh on his life uh his legacy in this moment? Well, Charlie was one of the most unique and special people in the conservative movement today. What he was able to build, the people he was able to organize was just so large. And of course there like AP is going live in DC uh in response to the death. Um I think that right now right now um AP is now reporting that the shooter is in custody. Location of the shooting. No person taken into custody after Charlie is not believed to be the No. Dude, why do do people [ __ ] not understand how to read? Like what is happening? No, the only reporting from the Associated Press is that the person that was taken into custody was not the [ __ ] shooter. I just I don't get it. I don't get why people keep linking it. Like maybe I'm just not refreshing the page or something, but like for the past 11 minutes, people keep repeatedly sending the [ __ ] uh sending the the uh same update over and over again and not and not understanding what the update is. The update doesn't say that they caught the shooter. The update says that the person that they apprehended was not the shooter. So, as far as we understand, like the shooter is still at large. Does this make you rethink debating in public ever? I mean, I need to, you know, I need to really reconsider the way I uh I do everything outside for the foreseeable future. Dude, it's crazy. I got dudes literally stuck in Gaza DMing me about Charlie Kirk. That is crazy. Like that's how [ __ ] impactful and big of a news story this is.