Hans, are we the baddies? The laziest of dystopian fiction writers could not come up with a more stereotypical army of evil minions. A monolithic, pervasive, fanatical, ruthless force of crack fighters goosestepping over Europe with skulls and lightning bolts emlazened on their black uniforms. We are of course talking about the Shut Stafel, better known as the SS, one of the paramilitary units to emerge from the ranks of the National Socialist German Workers Party. one which eventually grew to become a parallel force within the armed forces. A state within the state, a horde of policemen, judges, and executioners responsible for the killings of millions of so-called undesirabs. The SA and the Stostroo the political party colloally known as the Nazis was founded in January 1919 with the unassuming name the German workers party. During its first rallies, discipline was maintained by loosely organized troops of stewards in charge of protecting party speakers and dejecting hecklers. The party grew importance and visibility after hiring a certain Austrian painter as its propaganda specialist and rebranding itself as the National Socialist German Workers Party in February 1920. When the artist formerly known as Corporal Hitler rose to the top position, he saw fit to reorganize the growing number of stewards into a formal paramilitary force. These were the Storm Abong, the Storm Detachment or SA for short. Modeled after Mussolini's black shirts, these troops wore brown shirts instead and were led by Ernst Rom, a former officer of the German Stormtroopers during World War I. And just like their Italian counterpart, Rom's brown shirts did not limit their operations to protecting party leaders. They actively attacked and disrupted other parties activities, engaging in massive street brawls against the socialist and communist factions. But the brown shirts became too numerous, too powerful to be fully trusted by Hitler. Besides, Rom and his acolytes did not hide their revolutionary and anti- capitalist feelings which could alienate the early financial backers of the Nazis. This is why in 1923, Hitler ordered the formation of a small personal bodyguard that would answer only to him. They were initially called the stars for hair or security guards. The group was soon renamed Adolf Hitler Stostrup, the shock troop, or as Hitler put it, the first group of toughs. This gang of toughs wore the same khaki uniforms as the SA, but they differentiated themselves by dawning a black cap emlazened with a skull and crossbones badge. This symbol clearly signified that these heavies meant business, but it was also a throwback to Imperial Germany's military tradition. The death's head, or toten cop, in fact, was a badge used by elite Hassar units. The first leader of the Stthrop was Julius Shrek, a World War I veteran who also acted as Hitler's chauffeur. Shrek's small unit included a colorful cast of characters such as Urikra, a former butcher and amateur wrestler, or Emil Morice, a convicted embezzle, who would later serve as Hitler's secretary and even date the Furer's niece. The star strip was the launch pad for top Nazi officials such as Rudolfph Hess or military officers like Joseph Seep Dietrich, the most decorated German soldier of World War II. With the backing of the SA and the more elite stostthrop Hitler and his acolytes began planning a coup or push to take over Bavaria and later the whole of Germany. This was the infamous Munich beer hall pch of November the 8th 1923. The first assault on Bavarian institutions on the night of the 8th went well enough for the conspirators. The morning after Hitler and his chief ally World War I hero General Ludenorf marched towards the Bavarian war ministry with the Stostrip leading the vanguard. In Odon's plats, the rebels were met by 100 Bavarian policemen armed with a nononsense attitude and also guns. A firefight ensued with casualties on both sides. Hitler himself risked getting shot, but one of his loyal stork graph threw himself in front of the bullets. Presumably he did this in slow motion while YELLING NINE. And so it was that Graph performed his duty, suffering heavy wounds to save the life of his party leader, who would later go on to make this sacrifice completely pointless by killing himself in the furer bunker and grateful of anything. The push overall had been a disaster and Hitler was incarcerated. Whilst in prison, he wrote my camp and came to a key strategic decision. The National Socialist Party could not rise to power via an armed insurrection. He would rise to the top by exploiting the framework of democracy. But if peaceful means and respectability were the new fashion, well, what to do with the ever growing ranks of the uncouthed and brawling SA? The Fura only required a small force of elite bodyguards. But when he was released from prison in December 1924, the brown shirts had expanded to 30,000 men. The new direction in party strategy led to a rift with Ernst Rom, who decided to immigrate to Bolivia in 1925. As per hair Hitler, he ordered his old friend Julius Shrek to reassemble his personal guard, which had been disbanded following the failed push. The Ptorian unit was reassembled, albeit with a different name, the Shutz Commando or Protection Unit. After another name change to Storm Stafel, Assault Squadron, they finally settled on Protection Squadron or in German, Shoot Stafel, the SS were born. Early days of the SS. The official founding date of the SS was November the 9th, 1925, the second anniversary of the failed Munich coup. But Shrek had been recruiting members since at least September the 21st that year. Initially, the SS counted only eight members. But following Shrek September recruitment drive, each party district across Germany was asked to form a 10-man squad under one officer. The only exception was Berlin, where the local Nazis were allowed to recruit a 22men unit. The purpose of the new SS was not only to protect the person of Adolf Hitler, but also to provide security to other Nazi officials and properties across the country. Despite the broadening scope of their activities, SS recruitment standards were always kept stringent. The ideal candidate had to be aged between 23 and 35 years old, tall, healthy, and strongly built. They had to be residents of the same area for at least 5 years with no criminal record, and their application had to be supported by two guaranurs. Furthermore, the SS guidelines excluded habitual drunkards, gossip mongers, and other delinquents. Every man was expected to adhere to the strictest discipline. Deviations from superior's orders were punished with cash fines, removal of the coveted swashika armband, or even dismissal from service. Following acceptance into the protection squad, each man had to swear loyalty not only to the Nazi party, but also to the person of Adolf Hitler. The Furer rewarded their loyalty by awarding the SS with a precious relic, a blood stained swashtika flag, a momento of the Munich coup. This caused the resentment of the SA who felt that they had been a much more active part than the predecessors of the SS, the Stostropa. But if the SS had the flag, the SA had well the SS. The new leader of the brown shirts, France Fairon Solomon, in fact acted as commanding officer to Julius Shrek, head of the SS. Von Solomon asserted his dominance by employing SS troops in the districts as errand boys, performing administrative tasks for the party. In spite of this treatment and in spite of Hitler's newfound desire for respectability, the SS occasionally found the occasion to prove their metal in street battles. For example, in 1926, the 10-man squad in Dresden had successfully beaten off an attack of 50 communists against the local Nazi officers. In that year, SS leader or Reichfurer Julius Shrek handed over the baton to former STOs trooper Joseph Burkold. But the new Reich furer did not tolerate interference from the SA and soon resigned in favor of his deputy erhard Hayen. Under Hayen, the Stafel underwent a period of decline with its ranks shrinking from a thousand to a mere 280 in the span of just 2 years. Moreover, some nasty rumors started circulating about Hayen. Apparently, his uniform had been customized by a Jewish tor. When such allegations reached the ears of Hitler, he promptly dismissed Hayden. From here on January the 5th, 1929, the position of Reichfur was entrusted to Hayden's deputy, a former army officer, fertilizer salesman, and chicken farmer with outstanding managerial skills called Hinrich Himmler, who would soon take the SS from small ragtag group of men to one of the most powerful forces in all of Germany, the Himmler years. On this note, making good use of his organizational skills, Himmler revived the SS, bringing its numbers back up to a thousand by December 1929 and then to 3,000 by the end of 1930. Ideal recruits under Himmler had to be over 5'8 in tall or 1.73 m. They had to look outwardly Aryan or Nordic and had to provide evidence of their ancestry going back to January 1800 with officers required to trace their lineage all the way back to 1750 to prove that they did not have any Jewish blood. Now, it should be noted here that much of Himmler's leadership and old guard did not fulfill this criteria, but the rice furer made an exception for those who had served in World War I. And what about the man himself who hadn't actually served in the Great War and didn't meet his own criteria? Well, if you make the rules, you can apparently break the rules, too. As for everyone else, after completing a rigorous selection and an extensive training program, it was time to swear a personal oath of allegiance to Hitler. It read, "I swear to the Adolf Hitler loyalty and bravery. I vow to thee and to the superiors that you appoint obedience unto death. So help me God. New SS men then received a ceremonial dagger which they paid for themselves. Under Himmler's direction, the SS increased in size and prestige, so much so that Hitler decided to make them independent from the SA. This was reflected by the uniform. SS men still wore the traditionally brown attire inherited from the SA, but Himmler personalized it by introducing a black keppy hat with the skull and crossbones and a black tie and a black cross belt. The Raj Fura also abandoned the old system of 10-man squads, each led by a district officer, and replaced it with a military hierarchy, albeit with distinctive ranks. For example, the equivalent of sergeant major in the SS was called sha furer or band leader. The captain was a halptorm furer or main assault leader and so on. The year 1929 is remembered also for a major cataclysmic event, the Great Depression. The subsequent economic downturn led to a sharp increase in essay membership as many unemployed workers joined the organization alongside a great number of ordinary criminals. As a consequence, discipline plummeted and the number of violent incidents involving the brown shirts escalated out of control. At the same time, some factions within the SA vied for more power. They wanted to completely absorb the rea the armed forces or ally themselves with the communists. Needless to say, a confrontation within the Nazi party was inevitable. And so it was that in the summer of 1930, the leader of the SA in Berlin, Walter Sten, issued a series of demands to Hitler. He wanted his troopers to be presented as candidates for parliamentary elections, and he demanded that the SS be excluded from providing security at Nazi party rallies. Upon Hitler's refusal, Sten and his men attacked the Nazi headquarters in Berlin, clashing with the SS standing guard. Himmler's troops were heavily outnumbered and eventually the brown shirts took over the party officers. Hitler recalled Rom from Bolivia, hoping that the old leader could restore order. But Sten was out of control, going so far as to denounce Hitler and propaganda leader Joseph Gerbles for betraying Nazi ideals. The uprising was quelled only when the party expelled from their rank all SA units that had rebelled. This automatically deprived them of any funding. With the money gone, support for Stends quickly evaporated. The SD during this struggle, the SS had remained staunchly loyal to party leadership. Hitler thus entrusted Himmler with the task of rooting out any dissenting voices. The SS commander carried this out with the help of a new hire, a former navy officer called Reinard Hydrickch. Hydrickch had been discharged from the Navy in April 1931 for conduct unbecoming of a gentleman. In brief, he had dated a girl for 6 months, but then married another lady. In May, he was interviewed by Himlow, who was looking for a security expert to set up an intelligence service within the SS. Hydrickch, whose intelligence experience consisted of reading spy novels, nonetheless impressed him, who hired him on the spot as the head of the security service. Hydrickch created a system of index cards, filing personal details about any potential enemy of the party. Communists, Catholics, Freemasons, Jews, aristocrats, conservatives, and Nazi party members suspected of disloyalty or deemed unreliable due to debts or scandals. The following year, 1932, SS membership ballooned to 30,000. These troops now paraded around with their new dapper infamous black uniforms, the ones commonly associated with the stereotypical image of the Nazi enforcers. Contrary to popular belief, these uniforms were not designed by Hugo Boss, but two SS members, Professor Car Debbich and Walter Hec. Hugo Boss and later other clothing factories were simply contracted to manufacture the attire. In any event, by 1933, Walter Hec introduced another distinctive element. The two S's styled as lightning bolts, a design borrowed from old pagan runic script. Initially, the bolt insignia adorned only the lapels of Hitler's personal guard. But then they were extended to every unit. Rise to power. In January 1933, Hitler's long-term strategy to gain power via legitimate means, albeit with frequent beatings and harassment of the opposition, finally paid off. President Hindenberg appointed Hitler the chancellor or head of the government. Two months later, the Nazis would win 288 seats in the Reich stag, the German Parliament. The only problem was that the Reich stag wasn't really there any longer, as it had been burned down in a fire on the 27th of February. Apparently, the fire had been set by Marinus Van Luber, a Dutch communist, with strong suspicion that it may have been a Nazi false flag attack. Whoever was the actual culprit, Hitler took the occasion to pass an emergency decree, providing sweeping police powers to the SS and the SA, tasked with protecting the state from its enemies. Brown shirts and black uniforms prowled the streets, rounding up thousands of political opponents. It was the first step in a hostile takeover of Germany and its institutions, a process in which the SS would play a pivotal role. Following the enabling act of March the 23rd, Hitler swept aside all political parties except his own and leading Nazis were appointed in top positions throughout the country. One of them, Adolf Wagner, became minister of the interior for Bavaria, a move favored by Himmler and his trusty master spy Hydrickch. Overnight, the two top SS officers gained control of all police forces within Bavaria. This was Himmler's endgame. Infiltrate all police and security forces in the Third Reich and eventually bring them under SS control. Bavaria was the first step. Here the SS and regular police forces rounded up hundreds of socialists, trade unionists, Catholic activists, and other suspected enemies of the regime. Regular prisons could not hold them all. So Himmler and his acolytes had to get creative. The political prisoners were herded into a decommissioned munitions factory surrounded by a barbedwire fence. The location of the facility was Dhau, the first Nazi concentration camp. Command of Dhau was handed over to SS officer Theodore Ike, who formed a new unit in charge of guarding the prisoners. This was the SS Toten Copande, the death's head unit. Birth of the Gestapo. Following their success in Bavaria, Himmler and Hydrickch sought to extend their grasp over the police force in Prussia, which implied control of the capital city, Berlin. The Prussian police was already rife with SA and SS men after all. But there was a snag. The minister of the interior for the Prussian state was top Nazi official Herman Guring. He was too powerful, too close to Hitler to relinquish control of his security apparatus to those schemers in black uniforms. Most of all, Guring wanted to prevent the SS from infiltrating the political and intelligence functions of his police. On April the 26th, 1933, Guring merged these two functions into a new organization and assigned it command to a civil servant not affiliated to the Nazi party. This man was called Rudolph Deals. He was the first head of the newly formed secret state police in German, the Gahimstats Piti, or Gustabo for short. Deals was a good cop, perhaps too good. So good, in fact, that he had the audacity to begin arresting SS and SA men when their actions became too heavy-handed. Now, few liked the SA at this stage, they numbered in the millions had anti- capitalist tendencies, and their leader, Ernst Rom, sought to replace the regular armed forces. Guring, in particular, was wary of the SA gaining too much power in Prussia, and Deals's Gustapo was too small a force to effectively oppose them. In early 1934, Guring had to face another threat to the independence of the police within his jurisdiction. Wilhelmfrick, Minister of the Interior for the entire Reich, wanted to absorb the Prussian police under a unified federal force. To protect his independence, Guring begrudgingly forced an alliance with Himmler. The Reichfura SS would help Guring in keeping Frick at bay. In exchange, Guring had to dismiss deals and hand over the Gustapo to the SS and Reard Hydrickch in particular. The deal was sealed on April the 20th, 1934. By controlling the SD, the Gustavo, as well as the regular SS troops, Himmler now oversaw all secret and political policing activities within the German Reich. Knight of the Long Knives, Himmler was clearly making big strides in consolidating the SS as the premier paramilitary arm of the Nazi party, the chief enforcer of Nazi ideology and Aryan purity. There was one last obstacle to clear the SA. Once the backbone of Nazi support, the khaki clad troopers were living on borrowed time. As mentioned earlier, Rom held ambitions for his brown shirts to completely replace the regular armed forces. This did not sit well with the generals, of course, nor did it sit well with Hitler, who needed the general support for his next power move, eliminating the position of president, thus concentrating all executive power within the hands of the chancellor, i.e. himself. This would have made him the unique undisputed furer of the Germans. Sure, Rom had been a trusty ally in the early struggles for national socialism, but he had grown too ambitious, too anti- capitalist. Furthermore, he was openly homosexual, as were several top SA officers. A regime built on manly traditional values could not abide such deviations from the north. In February and March 1934, Rom made it clear that he was angling for an appointment as Minister of War. Hitler did not immediately say no and met with him on June the second. At the meeting, Hitler convinced Rom to take a month of leave during July. While the SA leader and most of his officers were chilling out, Himmler and Hydrickch were scheming. They manufactured evidence incriminating Rom of accepting French money to overthrow Hitler in an impending coup. The two SS officers compiled lists of SA men, political adversaries, and other targets suspected of disloyalty. Himmler then ordered his trusted officer, Seb Dietrich, to assemble and armed two companies of men selected from the Leestande SS Adolf Hitler, the recently created elite unit of bodyguards to the Fura. Dietrich's companies were equipped by the regular army and dispatched to the town of Bad Vite in Bavaria. This was the beginning of the purge that was codenamed operation hummingbird and better known as the night of the long knives. The SS surrounded the hotel where Rahm and his lieutenants were enjoying their period of leave or indulging in a homosexual orgy depending on versions. Hitler himself then traveled to Bad Visay to oversee the arrest of the SA leadership. Rom and six of his officers were taken to Munich and imprisoned. The six were shot immediately in the prison's courtyard. Rahm's execution could have been avoided as Hitler had second thoughts, but Himmler convinced him to go ahead with the order. The commander of Daral, Theodore Ike, and his deputy, Michael Lipert, walked into Romell and shot him twice. With his last breath, the fallen SA leader muttered, "Mine furer, mine furer." To which Ike replied, "You should have thought of that before. Now it's too late." Meanwhile, all over Germany, SSmen and Castapo officers received the secret password Calibbri or hummingbird. As per instructions, they opened sealed envelopes containing the kill list of alleged conspirators to eliminate. Himmlas and Hydrick's best and brightest went on a two-day assassination spree targeting SA officers, old and current rivals of the Nazi carders, as well as completely unrelated victims. For example, the music critic of a Munich newspaper, Mr. Vilhelm Schmidt was abducted by the SS and returned to his widow in a casket with strict instructions not to open it. The unlucky critic had been the victim of an unfortunate typo, it appears. The SS were after one Wilhelm Schmidt with a T at the end, a general with the SA. Other notable victims included former Chancellor Kurt von Schliker shot in his home alongside his wife. Theodore Ike took personal care of Gustav von Carr who had been head of the Bavarian government during the failed push of 1923. The 71-year-old was taken to Dhau, tortured, and hacked to death with a pickaxe. The purge did not spare Hitler's former Nazi party comrade, deputy, and rival, Gregor Strasa. The Gestapo dragged him to a cellar in Berlin, where he was shot from behind. The death was ruled a suicide. The entire operation had been a great success for Himler and his acolytes. The Fiora duly rewarded him with a degree dated July the 26th, which promoted the SS to the status of an independent organization within the Nazi party. This promotion would allow Himmler to operate without any supervision and to fulfill his vision of turning the SS into the backbone of all police forces as well as a parallel army loyal to the Nazi party rather than to the German nation. Himmler's army, an army by definition, requires weapons. But surprisingly, thus far, the only SS unit officially allowed to carry firearms with the bodyguards of Adolf Hitler. But this was not enough for Himmler. In September 1934, he arrested from war minister von Bloomberg the permission to create three regiments of armed SS troops. These were the Verun trooper, the disposition troops. They were called the SSBT for short. Establishing the SSBT required Himmler to create a training program and an officer academy called the Yunashula. Officer candidates were selected amongst the SS and Gustapo and even what remained of the SA. Recruits had to comply with the usual racial purity standards required by Himmler and be at least 5' 10 in or 1.78 m tall. The curriculum included basic military training, advanced assault tactics, war games to learn the principles of strategy, as well as etiquette courses because by day you may be shooting unarmed prisoners in the bag, but come dinner time, you better use the right fork with the salad. Classroom training also included hours of political and ideological studies. Recruits had to study mine comp and were indoctrinated on why the Aryans were the natural master race and thus entitled to well dump on everybody else. From 1938 onward, the SSB trainees were allowed to practice their skills by staging large-scale training maneuvers with live ammunition and artillery. Before then, the main method to hone their battlefield prowess was through sport and lots of it. For example, the SS practiced track and field, rowing, and boxing. A training manual at the time read, "Sport arouses belligerence, hardens the will, promotes self-discipline, and therefore promotes the training of the SS man to the level of a combat effective fighter. In addition, it should also afford the SS man relaxation and rest and give him pleasure." At the end of the 5-month course, only onethird of the recruits made it to graduation. Those who qualified were inducted into the SSV with all one of the many pseudo esoteric rituals loved by Himmler, an enthusiast of pagan and occult studies. These celebrations were often conducted at night with torches and search lights illuminating SS insignia and other symbols inspired by Nordic law. Other landmark events included the winter solstice celebration which replaced the Christian Christmas and the SSwine or marriage wine, a sort of pagan wedding ceremony invented by Himmler. These rituals had a powerful effect on the morale of SS troops as it fostered a spiridic core, a sense of belonging to a powerful cohesive organization somehow different and loftier than the average Hans in the street. Or at least that was Himler's intentions. Even before his time, SS troops have been perpetuating another tradition which has done wonders to prop up the morale of armed units everywhere at any time. And that's drinking alcohol. The SS, alcohol, and sex. The SS and the SA before them had formalized their drinking bides into celebrations called fellowship evenings. According to Professor Edward Westerman of Texas A&M University, they promoted internal cohesion, expressed an exaggerated masculine identity, and fostered comradeship amongst perpetrators of mass murder. A fellowship evening, usually started with a formal troop inspection, followed by a speech, usually delivered by a World War I veteran. After singing Nazi party songs, participants raised their tankers and beer flowed like there was no tomorrow. Fellowship evening became a staple among concentration camp guards before and during World War I. In fact, the inauguration of Dha was celebrated with one such event. According to later testimony by camp survivors, drinking sprees went handinhand with beatings and killings of prisoners as the guards competed to outdo each other. An Ashvitz survivor, Philip Mueller, recalled how the SS threw a fellowship evening in honor of a comrade's promotion to sergeant. The merry companions drank and danced to folk music one door away from a crerematorium filled with bodies awaiting to be burned. A variation on the fellowship evenings were the sea farin or victory celebration staged after conducting a mass killing of Jews, Roma Slavs or other undesirabs. Here SS troops from all ranks including senior officers and Gustava personnel competed by out drinking each other and boasting about the number of kills. It appears that both types of drinking rituals were not just meant to cement camaraderie or celebrate achievements, but also a coping mechanism for SS guards who witnessed and perpetrated acts of violence multiple times a day. In a speech in January 1942, Himmler himself acknowledged that the brutal camp duty could damage the character of his fine troops. Hence, it was important for them to indulge in alcohol, to vent steam, and maintain discipline. There was another way to avoid the stresses of mass murder, and that was well, not committing mass murder. SS troops were clearly bound to obey superiors by their oath. But there were reported instances of SS soldiers who refused to participate in violence in the camps and asked to be relocated to frontline duties instead. On this one, those who refused to kill innocents were branded by their fellow troops as little mama's boys or schlaps. That's German for limp, by the way. Clearly, a well-defined and over masculine identity was of great importance to the SS. Troops were encouraged to marry perfect Aryan and Nordic women and breed numerous children for the benefit of the Reich as part of the eugenics program Leebons or Front of Life launched by Himler in 1935. Now we've done a full video on this before but in short the program sought out unmarried pregnant women of good racial stock offering them support to raise their children as well as trying to recruit others of goodan stock to come and be used as the female half of breeding bears with SS members. During the course of the war, SS men were also encouraged to impregnate women in occupied territory and their offspring were taken into care by the program. Furthermore, the SS perpetrated the kidnapping of many thousands of children from conquered lands to be raised as Germans in foster homes. The goal of Liebons was to curb the decrease in Aryan birth rates. Anything that contributed to that decline was to be actively opposed, which meant that homosexuality was also considered a particularly vile crime. In February of 1937, Himmler boasted to his generals that only 8 to 10 cases of homosexuality per year were recorded in the SS. He hoped to reduce the numbers even further by sending homosexual troops to concentration camps and having them shot while trying to escape. Himmler's estimates were far from accurate, however, as samesex relationships among Nazi armed units were far more common than their leaders were willing to admit. In 1940, the SS internal courts debated 16 cases of homosexuality and 22 cases in the first quarter of 1943 alone. It appears that out of all arrests from homosexuality carried out in the city of Dusseldorf, 57% involved an SS or SA trooper. As World War II progressed, Himmler spoke out about and against gay relationships more often than any other Nazi leader, advocating for the immediate execution of these degenerates. Only in 1945 did he soften his stance by proposing to have offenders sent to the front lines to prove themselves. Branching out. Speaking of spicy time, from 1939 to 1942, the SS ran a high-end brothel in Berlin, the Salon Kitty. This was the brainchild of Reinard Hydrickch and his head of counter intelligence, Walter Shelonburg. The original madam of the establishment, Kitty Schmidt, was arrested in June 1939 after smuggling money out of Germany and was offered a deal. Either go to concentration camp or allow the SS to take over. Schmidt complied and Shelenburgg installed dozens of microphones in the bedrooms. He then hired girls arrested by the vice squad and trained them on subtly extracting information from high-end clients during pillow talk. Thus, Hydrickch and Shelonburg were able to collect confidential information about businessmen, Nazi cadres, and foreign diplomats. Notable clients of Salon Kitty included Galazio, the Italian foreign minister, and Mussolini's son-in-law. Hydrickch himself was a regular patron, although he took care of having the microphones turned off during his liaison. The SS differentiated into several other unconventional activities normally not associated with a police and military force. For example, in 1936, Himmler and Professor Carl Debbich, the designer of the infamous black SS uniform, acquired a porcelain factory to produce a profitable series of Aryan and Nazi inspired knickknacks. Himmler eventually established the economic and administrative main office to manage all of the SS's for-profit enterprises, including the bottling and distribution of mineral water. And when I say for profit, I really mean it. The Rice Fura SS employed almost exclusively slave labor from concentration camps, maximizing profit margins. Moving on from there, in July 1935, Himmler branched out into anthropological and archaeological research by founding the Ancestral Heritage Organization. This organization sought to confirm pseudocientific notions about the superiority of the Aryan race by tracing its ancestral origins. From 1935 to 1935, these researchers conducted expeditions to Finland, Sweden, Italy, the Middle East, and Tibet among others. Some of these expeditions were limited to studying and cataloging ancient petetroglyphs and folklore. Others sought to prove that the ancient Romans descended from a Nordic race or that the Buddha had Aryan heritage. An interesting aside here, their activities likely inspired the depiction of a cult craze Nazis seeking ancient artifacts in the Indiana Jones films. An SS officer called Otto Ran did indeed conduct research on the Holy Grail in southern France, but he was never part of this group and was an outspoken opponent of Hitler's regime. Ran eventually left the SS and suffered persecution from the Gestapo until his mysterious death in July 1939. During the war, the Ancestral Heritage Organization took on increasingly sinister tasks. For example, they provided infrastructure, funding, and materials to SS doctors at Dao and other concentration camps to conduct medical experiments on unwilling subjects, which almost invariably resulted in their death. Unstoppable Himmler. Besides these interesting side gigs, Himmler's focus remained on expanding the SS's policing, intelligence, and military branches. By the end of 1935, his right arm man Hydrickch had expanded the Castapo personnel from 35 to 607 agents who carried out 7,000 arrests in 1935 and 1936 alone. The secret police was an incredibly powerful tool in Hitler's hands to get rid of high-ranking opponents, including the commander and chief of the army, General Von Frri, and Minister of War, Marshall von Bloomberg. Both top officers opposed Hitler's plans for an upcoming war to expand in Eastern Europe and would soon come to regret it. An informant of the Gestapo, one Otto Schmidt, reported that an officer called Fritz had been involved in a homosexual affair. This turned out to be a completely different officer, but Himmler and Hydrickch seized the occasion to have the general court marshaled. The subsequent trial, recognized that there had been a case of mistaken identity, and Schmidt, the informant, was shot. Nonetheless, von Fritz, was dismissed from his position. As per von Bloomberg, Hydrickch came into possession of illicit photos of Bloomberg's wife, proving that she was a former prostitute. Another sex scandal led to another dismissal. Thus, the armed forces have been effectively decapitated, and Hitler reorganized their leadership into the Ober commando dermarked, the OKW, answerable only to him. As for Himler, he was not content with overseeing a relatively small secret police force. In June 1936, the SS top dog pressured the German government for an appointment as a minister of the interior. The current minister Wilhelmfrick resisted pressure but eventually conceded that Himmler be appointed chief of police. Whilst formerly subordinate to Frick, Himmler reported directly to Hitler. And more importantly, he was now at the head of all national and local police forces including the criminal police or Creo and the regular uniformed police or ORPro. In September 1939, Himmler consolidated all police forces, the Gustapo and his intelligence services, the SD, into a single organization, the Reich Security head office, or RHA in its German acronym. It appears that 1936 was a momentous year for the Shoot Straffle. In the same year, DHA commander Theodore I created a new infamous department, the SS Toten Cobb Vabande, or Death's Head Unit. Initially conceived to guard concentration camps, this unit grew to 8,000 troops by 1939 and was later used in military operations. Meanwhile, the military branch of the SS saw some expansion. In August 1938, the armed regiments of the SSBT were expanded into a divisionsiz unit. This became the basis for the notorious Varan SS, the parallel armed force which fought alongside the regular army in World War II. The term varan simply means weapons or arms in German, by the way, which makes these the armed SS. Now, those of you who have a thing for internal structures may be wondering how Himmler actually organized his men, whose number ballooned to 250,000 by the start of the war. The SS were divided into three main branches. We've already covered two of them, the Vafan SS and the RSHA, Hydrick's Reich Security Head Office. The third one was the Argamina SS or general purpose branch, which oversaw a variety of activities and departments such as the economic and administrative office in charge of managing the slave labor force or the legal department, which enforced discipline within the SS. The SS also had their own propaganda team which edited and published the weekly paper Dar Schwartza corpse or the black core. Another key department was the race and settlement main office or Russia or R USAHA which enforced racial laws amongst SS ranks and planned the settlement of ethnic Germans in occupied lands. Finally, they also conducted an educational program via the Adolf Hitler schools, 12 facilities which educated or rather indoctrinated boys and girls ages 14 to 18 on the tenets of Nazi ideology. The SS at war. As World War II erupted in September 1939, the most active branch was of course the Vafan SS. Hitler's units would become a feared fighting force regarded as elite by their foes. Interestingly, their baptism of fire in the invasion of Poland was far from a stellar performance with regular Vermarked officers pointing out their poor training. The vermarked also complained about the crimes of war perpetrated by SS soldiers in occupied territories, going so far as court marshalling them for shooting Polish prisoners of war. Himmler argued to Hitler that the poor performance was due to a lack of equipment and stifling supervision by the beer marked. His complaints must have struck accord as the furer allowed Himmler to set up his own military procurement office and military tribunals which is a good thing for the SS as one of the roles of all SS units was the extermination of undesirabs in occupied territories. The SS had played a key role in delineating the so-called final solution to the Jewish problem from the very start. It was the SD or security service who had orchestrated the night of broken glass, the infamous pogram of November the 9th, 1938. Then it was chiefly the SS who manned and coordinated the irons group or operation groups who carried out the holocaust by bullets during the early phases of operation barbarosa. And it was Reard Hydrickch who in January 1942 chaired the Wanzi conference during which Nazi leadership planned the systematic extermination of millions of Jews and other undesirabs. After World War II, VAF and SS veterans distanced themselves from the horrors of the Holocaust, claiming that these were perpetrated by units in the rear, such as the Totenov Division or concentration camp guards. In reality, the Waffen SS were frequently rotated between front line and rear duties, thereby implicating fighting units in the administration of the camps. In any event, by the late stages of the war, manpower shortages meant that Himmler could no longer be so picky about recruiting only Germans of pure Aryan stock for his SS. In fact, by 1945, the Voffan SS was one of the most diverse formations of the war. The SS actively recruited volunteers and conscripts from occupied, allied, satellite, and even neutral countries. By April 1945, the Voffan SS counted almost 830,000 troops. Of these, only about 40% were German nationals. A further 30% were ethnic Germans recruited from other countries, and the remaining 30% were volunteers and conscripts hailing from 17 different nationalities. The foreign troops made up 21 out of a total of 38 SS divisions. Notable examples include the Viking and Nordland divisions recruited in Scandinavia, the two literature divisions from Latvia, and the Charmaine division made up of French volunteers. These units were categorized as front rank divisions, fully fitted and operational for frontline duties. Detachments of the Viking Nordland and Charmaine even fought in the bitter desperate defense of Berlin against the Red Army. In most cases, however, foreign divisions were categorized as being second rank or even phantom. This meant that they were never fully equipped and were mainly used in the rear, generally in an antipartisan capacity. Despite him's best or worst efforts, the SS and the German military as a whole were doomed to lose the war. Hinrich Himmler himself was captured by the Allies and committed suicide on the 23rd of May 1945. The horrors of the crimes committed by his troops would soon be revealed to the world as Nazi officials and SS personnel went on trial at Nuremberg.