Now, WNW1 [music] reports across the globe from What's News with You with comedians Josh Johnson and Ashley Gavin. And you, [music] our reporters in the field, what's news with you? >> Are we recording? >> No, >> we are recording any that you'd like. >> I'm so sorry. I meant to burp and then ask if we were recording [laughter] >> or at least wait for the answer. >> Uh we are I can cut any of this up top if you'd prefer a cut. >> I'm sorry. Apologize to everyone. Please My manager keeps telling me to stop burping into microphones. >> Who Who is telling you to stop burping? It's happened enough times. >> Be unnamed. Yes. He's like, "You got to stop." >> I need to know where else you burped. [clears throat] >> I'm actually kind of mad I'm not the first. like a vulnerable moment that we [laughter] shared together and no general lack of dignity. >> Yeah, but your sorry was an I'm so sorry as if it was the first time it had happened. >> I know. I know. Well, that's what I do. Every time it happens, I go, "Oh, you know when like a [ __ ] dog bites you and like the owner's like, >> she's never done that before. I can't believe you're like [ __ ] off." >> You know? Yes. >> Also, we should probably introduce the show. >> Um Yeah. Welcome to What's News with You, the new show about everything that's not in the news. We are joined by our guest anchor today, Rose Bud Baker. Thank you so much for being here. >> Fantastic. So much for having me. >> Thank you so much for being here. >> Thanks, guys. So cool. >> We usually talk about our news. Do you have news? >> Um, I'll do the same news we were talking about earlier. I keep waking up at dawn >> every morning for three or four mornings now. >> Am I allowed to? >> Yes. Okay. And it's still yours is still uh New Zealand. That >> No, no, this is new. I was sleeping normally. >> Oh. >> And then four or five days ago, I just started waking up at dawn. >> What time are you going to bed? >> Normal. >> Same time. >> Yeah. I mean, like, you know, we're comedians. >> Anywhere [laughter] anywhere between, I don't know, >> 9:30 and 3:00 in the morning. [laughter] >> Damn. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> But you know what? Typically 12:30, let's say 12:30, 1 in the morning, >> right? Yeah. >> And I'm waking up. I don't ever check the clock cuz that gives me anxiety. >> But I look out the window and the sun is not up but it's coming. It's like red in the sky. >> [ __ ] >> Am I being called too? What? >> If the sun is red then yeah. [laughter] >> If the sun is red every morning then I feel like the answer is yes. >> Yeah. And when I look in the mirror there's flames in my eyes and [laughter] I'm growing horns. >> There's a red sun. >> The thing that you're describing Yeah. I think you're the only one seeing it. [laughter] >> Okay. Am I chosen in a good way or a bad way? >> I I think that in the movie >> That's a toss up. >> That's [laughter] a toss up. Especially nowadays, I feel like that's a toss up. >> I guess in the movie The Omen, you don't really see the kid do much bad stuff. It's really the adults around them that are losing their minds. So, I guess if anyone does a sort of blood oath to you, I guess you can know you're evil. >> Oh, I forgot about the blood oath. I took this blood oath. [laughter] Yeah. [snorts] Okay. All right. That makes sense. >> What is it? I I was about to do a bit. My This is so morbid, but my cat recently died. I was about to do like a bit about my black cat dying. And maybe that's why I'm being called to it. >> I saw a black cat on my way here. I'm really sorry to freak you out, but >> in the streets. >> In a bodega. >> In a bodega. >> Yeah, that's the streets. >> But they were but it was sitting in the middle of the bodega and I walked in and it went like and I was like off. Whatever. In my experience, black cats are so sweet. Yeah. >> But, you know, I'm extremely >> I love a black cat. I love a black cat. Very cute. >> I can't stand when a bodega cat isn't like about his business. Like, like I I saw a bodega cat. This is This was actually in the near my old place in Bedstey. I went into a new bodega. So, we're we're talking about like a fully refurbished. They even have the uh string LED lights towards the bottom of the of the rows and everything so it makes the light bounce off the floor. It just it looked like a department store but a bodega >> like one of those Ubers that's like doing too much. >> Yes. Yes. It was exactly like that. >> Yeah. >> And I walk in, they got a cat and they got a rat. I saw the rat and the cat also saw the rat and was in no way moving. >> Was just like that's my sister. [laughter] >> Yeah. It was It was It was so disgusting. >> She lives here, too. >> Cuz the reason we have the cat in the bodega is for the rat. >> Yes, >> cuz this cat is not a pet. No one treats it like a pet. >> So stupid that I just put together that the cats are there for the rats. >> Yeah, >> that's so embarrassing. >> I just [laughter] I just >> Can I tell you something though? I thought I Okay, >> wait. What are you saying? >> I thought they were there for the vibe. When you watch like a court show, do you think the prosecutor and the defense attorney are on the same side? [laughter] >> I just like their little suits. >> What? [laughter] >> Your honor, the whole thing's adorable. >> It's like an open door. It's an open door like sidewalk level full of food establishment. No, you guys are >> She's like probably just for the vibe, right? >> It's probably just cuz like >> probably just here to hang. That's also I can tell you're a cat person cuz you were like of course anyone would love to have a cat at work. >> It actually is like why don't most places have a cat? I have a really embarrassing bodega cat story that is I don't know that I've ever told anybody this but when I obviously had a drinking problem for a very long time. >> Okay. and then quit drag quit and uh I've been sober for a while but um but I am on wellbutrin and I would like to get more somehow. So um anyway [laughter] um but so I was on um so I was I was like I had just moved to New York and I was [ __ ] hammered and I went into a bodega and I felt bad for the cat and I'm a white woman in my 20s. I tried to steal this [ __ ] cat. [laughter] Long story short, I put this cat in my purse and um >> Were you unfamiliar with bodega cat culture? >> Yeah, I was unfamiliar with everything. >> I was from out of town. >> I was from [ __ ] I moved here from Boston. You know, they don't have bodega cats in Boston. They're like everybody in Boston's like kind of the same, you know? Yes. >> And um >> and they don't have a severe rat problem. >> They don't have a severe rat problem as far as I know. Um, but yeah, I went in there and I was like, they're just leaving this cat. I'm like, what happens when they go home? Does this cat just, you know, in my drunk mind, >> I'm like, this is animal abuse. >> But I would have done exactly the same thing had I not been born. >> It's like the most entitled >> [ __ ] just like I'm saving this cat, but it's like this drunk woman is trying to [ __ ] smuggle a cat into a bag. I can't go to Mexico without having an argument with my girlfriend about whether or not taking the dog back. Yeah. Taking the dog. I mean, like I'm the worst. >> Yeah. I got caught, too. I was like, it was bad. >> And when you got caught, did you get Cuz I find drug people to be very like indignant when they've been caught. So, were you like what was your play, >> buddy? If I if I could tell you what the story like >> I was this was a story that was told to me, you know what [laughter] I mean? By the by by the guy I was with who was like you tried to steal a bodega cat last night and now we can't go to the bodega on our corner anymore. >> YOU'RE LIKE ADOPT A BODEGA CAT. [laughter] >> I WAS A BODEGA CAT. >> WE HAVE TO RESCUE all the bodega cats. I will say that [laughter] that thing that that thing is so is so epic because it's like they'll there are people who steal from bodeas who do get caught who eventually go back and it's like fine and it's not fine because they've been forgiven. It's fine because enough people try to steal that like you can't keep track of everyone. Yeah. >> This is a I will never forget these two people >> cuz he was with you, right? >> Well, and the cat was trying to escape. The cat was trying to get out >> of your arms or the bodega. >> Out of my purse. >> Oh, yes, of course. >> Was like literally like meowing and trying to get out of my purse. And they were like, "Yo, like what?" >> Yeah. >> Listener, write in. If you've gone to a bodega and there's a photo of Rose Bud on the outside, >> this woman, you'll barely recognize me. Just imagine my face with like very short hair and imagine the the hair was cut with like a kitchen knife and you'll [laughter] that's pretty much what you're looking for. >> Cat was like, "Who the [ __ ] is that?" >> Yeah. [laughter] That's so good though. >> So bad. It's so bad. >> What a great time in your life. >> Yeah. I mean, I really miss that confidence. [laughter] I really do. >> What do What do you Because we had a conversation about this at the seller one time. What do you think happens when you are like like you're you're young and you're either it's either sometimes it's confidence and sometimes just like like a a sort of naivity that you >> that you you can't even account for later. Like I think about moving to Chicago and I look back at it now and it all worked out so we're fine. But if I had to do that move again now I'd be like no I'll die. >> Yeah. And I but I was like fully and I I had more reason to die back then because I had fewer skills. I wasn't like any good at comedy yet. I hadn't started really. >> It's that beginner's mindset that's actually so important even though it makes you sometimes an idiot and an [ __ ] >> where you're like I'm willing to take big swings because I don't even have the foggiest idea of how much I suck >> and I have nothing to lose. >> Nothing. Truly nothing. like the nobody could come for anything that I own cuz I own nothing and you know >> except that bodega cat if you >> except for that bodega [laughter] yeah if I had gotten away >> and so I what do you think happens from there? I mean obviously like like you know you have a kid now and and like you do get you do get to some sort of like status in in life where you maybe don't want to lose that for the sake of some other thing. But I don't know what happens to it >> overall >> like why would it go away? If anything, you should have more confirming. No. >> Yeah, for sure that. >> Yeah. >> But also, I think like I think it goes away and it gets replaced with something like a little more um I don't know which philosopher said this [ __ ] And I don't even know if they said it like this, [laughter] but but everyone should quote everything like that. [laughter] That's that's that's an >> no more misinformation if we had that honesty level in quoting >> when [laughter] I tell you >> you better be able to stake your [ __ ] life on that statistic. Otherwise, we state it [laughter] in the Rosebud Baker fashion. I don't know who said it and I don't know if they said it, [laughter] >> but >> I could be quoting my dad. >> IT WAS THE DOLLALY LLAMA. >> You're going fully backto back. Like this is this is like all time great. This [laughter] is crazy. It was like, you know, like the more like the less you know, the the more wise you are essentially. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Okay. Does that make sense? >> The more know you know, the less wise you become. Please find out who this is. >> The less you know, the more wise you are. >> I almost think this is Dr. Seuss. >> It could be. It could be no one. It could be like a [ __ ] [laughter] >> Yeah. >> An Instagram meme. >> It could [laughter] It could literally be like a thought that I had in an Uber once. [laughter] I don't know. >> Yeah, but >> I think Jeez, what? And by the way, this is every podcast ever. Anytime anybody quotes somebody on a podcast, this is what I'm saying is could be Well, you know how there's MLA style formatting? >> Yes. >> This is RBB style quotation. [laughter] >> I know technically it's one word, but it should be RBB. >> Yeah. >> What? That specific phrase is is no one. >> Okay. Obviously, >> but is there a quote like that? We know that. >> Yes, there's a number uh uh Socrates said something along the lines of the only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing. >> That's it. THAT'S THE ONE. [laughter] THAT IS WHAT I WAS GOING FOR. >> Einstein also said, "The more I learn, the more I realize how much I don't know." >> Yeah. >> Uh Shakespeare said, "Have more than you show. Speak less than you know." >> All right. I think the first two were kind of >> I I once had somebody quote something to me that like it sounded kind of profound and then I it stuck with me to the point where I looked it up and I was expecting it to be like uh like an African or Asian proverb. Maybe it was in the Bible. Whatever. >> What was it? >> It was it I I'm trying to remember the quote now, but I remember the sensation in my brain from finding out it was Little Peep. [laughter] And I was like I it it ruined my day. >> I was like I was like wait. Oh. Oh. Cuz it cuz in my mind and and the way they said it and the moment seems so deep. I got to find >> peep quotes. >> I'll find the lyric. I think it was. But it was like >> that sucks. While you're doing that, what's news with you? What's news with me? Okay. I This is um like a small I I've just been thinking. I've been going over it a lot in my brain. I don't really know what it means yet. >> Ruminating. >> Yeah. So, like I have been in therapy for 10 years and I have a 2-year-old and she know she talks a lot like like constantly. Like probably burns like 8,000 calories a day just talking. And she said to me the other day, we were having dinner and she goes, "I'm a woman." [laughter] And I was like, "Hell yeah." And then she was like, I stumble around the house like a woman. [laughter] And I was like, well, I'm the only woman in the [laughter] house that you know. So I was like, what does this mean about how does she see me? Do you know what I mean? Like I was like, that might be a little bit of mom disease. I don't know if you have this, but it seems like a lot of parents have it. Not speaking from experience, but like you get worried that everything you do >> is imprinting on your child and you're like worried about it. But don't you think she might just already be influenced by the things around her? And >> what? How did she even learn the word stumble? >> You're teaching her thousands of words a day. >> I don't say that word. Like I was like, >> what? She does this [ __ ] where she like tries to I swear to God I think she's trying to like get in my head. [laughter] >> She's like trying to [ __ ] with me. She ca she showed up in a hallway the other day [laughter] and she was like mama your whole life is changing and I was like get out of here. She's like I'm I think she's trying to find me out. >> But I will say though like >> I think the sun thing might be an omen. >> The sun thing is an omen. >> I THINK SOMETHING'S HAPPENING >> FOR SURE. >> The black cat. The scary kid in the hallway. >> Yes. There's nothing creepier than a [ __ ] toddler in a hallway. I'll tell you that much. >> I'll also throw it out there that like I understand that black people can be a bit superstitious, >> but white >> I never thought that >> white people will let themselves have like a possessed child for way too long. You know what I mean? Like like this is like this like your whole life changer. Like the stuff she's saying to you is a little >> That's not a 2-year-old. That's not what a 2-year-old's supposed to say. I was like, get out of here. I like >> if anything if she >> Maybe she's a like a sage. Maybe she's an oracle. Maybe you need to buy some sage because if she is over here, [laughter] >> you get home and now she like she like, "Oh, mama be elabub want to say hi." >> Yeah. >> It's like, "Oh my god, >> now it's too late. Now it's too late. Maybe >> now I'm like Damian." You know what I mean? Now I'm [ __ ] on a balcony [laughter] talking to [ __ ] Satan. >> That's That's terrifying though. Like because >> Do you just not respond? I said, "What are you?" I said, "What are you at [laughter] first?" I said, "What are you?" And then I go, "Who said that to you?" And then she was like, "Uh, Glenda." And I was like, "From Wicked." And so then I like watched Wicked to literally check cuz cuz I was [laughter] like freaked out. >> This is a 5-hour activity. >> It freaked me out. I was like, >> "You spent a working day." >> I was like, "Is is my daughter like possessed?" basically like I'm like I it creeps me out and then like I stumble around the house like a woman. I was like am I like sleepwalking or something like you know what I mean? >> Yeah. >> I started getting like >> but she watches she watches Wicked you know she started watching it from somewhere. I'm not saying you're a bad parent. I'm saying it's >> every even if you said it I wouldn't know the difference cuz I haven't read a single book about what to do. So it could be true. And I'll be honest with you, since becoming a mom, even if I'm a bad mom, I'm like, "Oh my god, even being a [ __ ] bad mom is so hard." Like, I look at bad moms and I go like, "Fucking props." Cuz >> I don't know how you I don't even know how you like organize the child care to ignore your kid for seven hours a day. You know what I'm saying? Like that takes organization. >> Yeah. Yeah. I will I will pitch you this. I think that there are better bad moms >> for sure. There's like there's levels. It's a spectrum. >> Yes. So, there are some bad moms who like have no idea where their kid is, right? >> And then there's bad moms who are like, I don't want to like look at you until you can hold conversation. >> Mhm. Do >> you know what I mean? Right. >> And so, I think that >> it's hard to know which one's worse sometimes. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Okay. >> Active abuse or negligence. >> Can I can I throw this out there? I actually Yeah. Maybe nobody will like this, but I I'm I've >> done a child abuse. Why not? Let's dive in. >> Uh [laughter] so you know how >> feel good topic. >> You know how the the people that came before. So the people that raised the sort of greatest generation, right? Those people there were like understanding an understanding of parenting and child psychology back then that was almost non-existent. But it did lead to uh these people. They raised these people. These people for all of their faults got got the world sort of back on track. You know what I mean? Not single-handedly. It was them and their parents and then their kids. But I look at what what we're like versus what the kids are like coming up now. And I don't know what is worse. I don't know if it's worse to like spend the whole day with your kid, but then because you're with them for like the full like you're on a farm. Yeah. >> And you're awake for like most of the you're awake for like 20 hours of the day just working and just trying to stay alive and then your kid's awake for twothirds of the day. So, you're losing patience with your kid and you're like yelling at him all the time. You're just like a you're like that quintessential like bad father in overalls from that era. I mean this so respectfully, but what the [ __ ] are you talking about? [laughter] >> I I I was about to I was about to get to I was about to get to the comparison. >> I didn't want to cut you off. >> No, no, no. You're good. You're good. >> You're the first person to ever do it, and I'm so grateful. >> No, [laughter] it's like it's like >> I don't know what's worse, being that guy, which seems like the where all toxic masculinity spawns from, right? or just being like a one of those mustached Williamsburg bros who puts the iPad in front of your kid and doesn't actually make eye contact with them until they're 10. I don't know what makes a more messed up person. >> I don't think it's about that. I don't think cuz listen, everybody's going to get messed up. >> Like at everybody's going to [ __ ] get messed up. Like I I kind of have just like accepted that it's part of the [ __ ] pact we make with whatever the [ __ ] is out there when we decide to like land Earth side. We're like, >> "Look, I'm here. It's going to be [ __ ] up." [laughter] I like the idea that there's a [ __ ] toll. There's like a toll patrol officer that your soul has to go and talk to and the guy's like, "Look, you're going to get [ __ ] up." >> Yeah. IT'S LIKE COCO. It's like the movie Coco, you know, when he's like going across to see his whatever. It's like that. We go back, we go, "All right, you know, I these are the parents that you're getting and uh you know, you applied for these parents." In my mind, I'm like that you apply and it's like you got these parents and this is the [ __ ] deal you make with them and it's going to be [ __ ] up and then but the point is if you can be present enough to like I think I'm trying to go back to what you were saying. I think the guy on the farm who like has a thousand yard stare and is like hugging a ghost is like [laughter] that's that's the dad that you want over the dad that like throws an iPad in front of his kid because that dad is like at least a there is a there's a mirror there's a social mirror there that like >> you know he might be emotionally unavailable but he's but he's there like a dad that And [ __ ] the giving your kid the iPad, even just the dad that's like staring at his [ __ ] phone all day long. >> That's like >> that breaks my [ __ ] heart when you see a kid trying to get their parents attention. >> When I when I am like on my phone >> and my daughter says like, "Put put it away." I go, "I want I want to throw this [ __ ] in the [ __ ] toilet." Like >> I hate this thing, you know? I don't want that. I'm like I don't And I'm not even like trying to do anything, you know? Like I'm not even trying to do anything on it. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Like that's fair. >> They I think the phones and the and the iPads are truly like we are going to look at that the same way that we >> looked at blowing smoke in your baby's face. >> Yeah. >> We're going to look at it like big tobacco for sure. >> Yeah. But like worse. >> It's It will be worse. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. 100%. There's so >> big tobacco might have [ __ ] with your lungs, but it didn't [ __ ] with your brain. >> Yeah. It's so It's so so bad. >> Yeah. >> And I think we are most people are in total just speaking of addiction. >> The denial the group denial that we're having over this is like >> out of control. >> It's crazy. I mean, I pick up that [ __ ] thing. We're selling like bricks. We're se we're selling a thing that makes it impossible to check your phone. Like you have to pay a toll to check your phone. Yeah. >> In your own house. >> Yeah. >> Like >> I just can't. No. >> As somebody who like is in recovery, I'm like the the parallels between the way that I used to like drink or do drugs and the way that I check my phone. It's it is the same exact thing. >> And if it helps, I I found the uh uh little peep quote. Uh it was basically it's going to help all of us. >> Yeah. It was it was it was basically um you always you always look at the music as art you never let it become a product and it was basically something to the effect of how like uh everything gets commodified and everything but he's like he's like you keep your art your art you never let it become a product and I was like man that like really like it like stuck with me that I found it was little peep and then I was looking up other little peep quotes and wow >> wow gez gez education was never my higher calling. That's a little peep quote. >> You should get that [ __ ] tattooed. >> Yeah. Yeah. I help my friends out when they need it. I'm extremely generous. >> All right. Well, that's a [ __ ] hinge quote. That's like a hinge profile thing. >> Yeah. I want to go deep into fashion. I want to go maybe into acting. There's a lot of stuff I would like to go into. >> I mean, come on. Well, this is >> the greatest work. >> This isn't even the music. And [laughter] so and the fact that I had this quote in my head and I was like man yeah you always keep or you never let it become a product is you know and I think I just needed to like hear that in that moment and blah blah and then sure enough >> but you know what it is that's a [ __ ] banger of a quote. It's a good quote. >> It is it is >> I think it's just it says a like something in my head at the moment. It said something to me that I was like, "Oh, this is like this is the level I was operating on." That I just needed the most base understanding of what was bothering me. Do you know what I mean? Like like everyone thinks that they need like a like a um a Kira Toriyama quote about like art to like rile them up and and like hold in their head. And it's like you may need someone to just be like, "Hey, >> hey, oh, the places you'll go." >> Yeah. [laughter] You're like, "Yeah, >> I will go places. >> I could go places." >> Yeah. Um, [laughter] so let's uh let's go to our correspondents, shall we? This is where we take calls from their news. >> [ __ ] yeah. >> And we react to it. >> Yes. Our listeners are reporters in the field. If you want to submit a news report to the program, please leave us a voicemail at 412-679 news and uh we might listen to it. And if you subscribe on patreon.com/wwy uh you can get priority listens to your reads higher chance of getting >> speaking of letting the art never become a commodity. >> You should keep you actually shouldn't. That's that's what we're speaking of. >> Well, we can never be bought as long as you're buying us. [laughter] >> That doesn't really make any sense. >> Oh, it makes perfect sense cuz we're staying away from the big corporations. Josh is a pure capitalist. He believes in a 100% free market and you have to prevent you have to prevent Josh's and there's nothing more like a free market that serves tech lords like Patreon and so forth and so on, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. If anything, thank you. Yes. Because because it >> No, you didn't do anything wrong. Don't feed >> a tiny mistake. I'm not going to call [laughter] much attention to it. >> It's not a mistake at all. Uh >> patreon.comw WNW otherwise we won't read your news from now on. >> That's actually not true. It's used to pay Alex and we will listen all of your news. We love your news >> and exclusively. [laughter] >> And our first news report uh comes from our reporter in the field, Mag. >> Hi, this is Mag reporting from New Orleans, Louisiana. I am in the uptown neighborhood which is typically known for its upper class southern manners as well as the Ivy League students attending local universities. Unfortunately, there have been complaints of the emergence of what authorities are referring to as a commune in this typically quiet neighborhood. Upon investigating, it appears there's no illicit activity happening on the property other than minor drug usage, which is mostly just decriminalized within Orleans Parish, as well as simple theft of plants and gardening supplies in order to beautify what I found to be a lush, if not eccentric backyard. I spoke with a resident, Clark, who was happy to give me a tour of the space. >> Can you pause it really quick? >> Sounds like a cult member. [laughter] >> Yeah. Yeah. Like like >> defending a cult. Th this this might be the first news that we ever got where I'm like, "Wait, did you trespass?" >> Like, did Yeah. Also, thank you, Mag. Is that your cult name or is that your your birth name? [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Cuz I cuz I think just as Alex was pausing, I heard something about a tour, so maybe there was no trespassing, but it was a >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> plants and gardening supplies in order to beautify what I found to be a lush, if not eccentric, backyard. I spoke with a resident, Clark, who was happy to give me a tour of the space, and it turns out they have some concerns of their own. Clark told me about life on the compound that they collectively refer to as the wormhole, and how it started in a >> Yeah, >> that's cult. >> That what it it's it sounds like a cult when you nickname things that don't need nicknames. >> Do you know what I mean? Like if you live somewhere with other people and y'all have a courtyard, you don't need to call it like the feeling field. Sure. >> Do you mean like as soon as you start doing stuff like that because cults build shared language around things that don't need it? >> Yeah. How dare you build community? Yeah. I I I I [laughter] It's true though that if you every cult has like a shared language. Have you read Cultish? >> I did the podcast, but I I haven't read the book. >> It's this book that's like about uh the shared language that like cults that people use to establish like a cult. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> And how they like come up with like a special name for a thing that is just like sharing, you know what I mean? >> I I also am thinking that maybe our field reporter, our our correspondent here might have went up to the door and knocked and asked for and then they gave them a tour, which feels >> so culty, >> you know, that they were like, "Oh, just take a look around." Yeah. Every look around our eccentric garden. >> Look, [laughter] it's like, "All right, >> just feel the robe. Just feel it. >> Feel it." Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, you don't have to put the whole thing on. Just feel >> It's soft though, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. A little mix in there. A little polyester, little cotton. [laughter] >> And how it started, innocently enough, as communes do. Just a bunch of broke friends that met downtown, wanted to move to a quieter part of the city, get a big house, and live together. Clark says everything was going great until one day she was taking a bath in the outdoor tub. Somebody branded her. [laughter] >> Yeah. [laughter] >> I also do like that they have an outdoor tub. >> You don't have neighbors. Where are they? I mean, [ __ ] >> Also, outdoor tub is it >> with roommates is crazy. >> It seems harder to enjoy than than a regular bath cuz you need the water to be so hot when you fill it just so that it's like warm when you get in. Totally. just so you're not freezing when you get out. >> They uh Jen and I stayed at this Airbnb, which wasn't like particularly fancy. It was nice, but it wasn't like over the top or anything. They had an outdoor tub and >> I I just couldn't really I felt like I was being watched, you know? I don't feels a little >> just feels a little culty to be able to sit in the tub and then one of your brothers or your sisters comes out, you're like, "Oh." Also, we say outdoor tub and we assume it's connected to plumbing. [laughter] >> You know what I mean? It could be like an outdoor bucket. That's like the barrel of the bucket. >> Yeah. >> She was taking a bath in the outdoor tub. She reports smelling a stronger smell of urine than typical when >> So listener, just just so you're aware, there should never be >> ever >> pee in your nose. >> Yeah, there shouldn't be like a stagnant. >> There's no level of urine that meets meets code. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a great way to put it. >> She's like, I don't know. I smelled like more piss than usual. [laughter] You know how you're walking around and you just constantly smell piss? >> Yeah. Because a safer metric, a safer metric to go by is any >> any becomes the problem. And now you don't have to worry about more or stronger. Any is bad, >> right? >> Yeah. >> Stronger smell of urine than typical. When pressed for what stronger than typical meant, she clarified, "Well, some of us pee in this corner sometimes." I asked her why and she said, "Well, me and M like to pee outside. It feels more natural and like we are almost dominating the squirrels, rats, and other city creatures that are out there." >> Sure, a cult. >> I'm so upset. >> Actually, okay, look, maybe we're being unfair. This might not be a cult. This may be a trap house. This [laughter] is This is probably a crack house. Like, what when you really think about cuz they're not doing it for like a spiritual reason. And they're like, "I'm the boss of the squirrels." That's a cracky idea. >> That sounds like a spiritual reason to me. >> That [laughter] >> to me that sounds spiritual. >> I mean, we we have different spirits. [laughter] >> I mean, I don't know. Smoking crack, you're like scratching yourself alone in the dark. You're not like fighting with the squirrels. >> Yeah. I mean, if you if you decide to piss outside just because it feels dominating over the slightly woodland creatures that are in the city center. I feel bad for you could just step on them. You know what I mean? If you're looking to dominate the squirrels, you could just [ __ ] throw a rock. >> Yeah, there are traps to piss out doors. >> Cuz that's also not how they think as like >> Right. Exactly. >> The squirrel will just be like, "Huh?" >> It's more pissed than usual. Look at that. Look at that broke ass human being. >> That's different [laughter] pissed than usual. >> Yeah. There's a there's a chipmunk being like, "You are poor." >> Yeah. [laughter] [snorts] rats and other city creatures that are out here. When asked how this became a problem, M told me, "Well, we had a whole system. Clark would pee in the corner and I would pee in the bucket that the hose drips into. It dilutes the pee and then I can also use it to water the plants, but at some point it started to smell like really strong." Clark cuts in with [laughter] >> Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. >> You're telling me that if you pee over and over and over again in the same area, it's going to start to stink. That's crazy. >> Crazy talk. >> But then but then >> I mean what the [ __ ] What can you do in this world? [laughter] >> Yeah, we used to be a country. >> But the So I thought that was bad for plants. Like it is. It's very It kills plants. It actively kills. >> That's why people don't want like cats in their yard. >> Yeah. It's an eccentric garden in a lot of ways. >> So why would they they cut the urine with water, but they still water the plants with it? I think I'm telling you I think that this is like getting into like cultish like you know those guys that like slap their balls in the woods to feel like more of a man. >> Yes. >> It's feeling cultish in that way where it's like guy you know what I'm saying? >> It's like the ring leader is like this bald guy that drinks his own piss. >> He drinks his own piss and he slaps his balls in the sun. [laughter] >> Wait, what are you saying? >> Well, let me >> find the guy. He's like He's a guy that he [ __ ] slaps his own balls and he sons his [ __ ] >> Will Blunderfield. >> This is This guy is >> Is that his actual name? >> Yeah. >> Yeah, this guy. He's crazy. >> He's uh >> he's got a huge head. I don't know. That's actually I think that's like a little bit. >> And on social media, he constantly Yeah. He drinks his own piss and he's like, "It's good for you." >> He's like, "It's good for you." He's like, "If you have toe fungus, you should [ __ ] pour piss pour your own piss on your toes in the shower or stuff." You know what I mean? Like to me this sounds like a little bit of like that kind of >> culty. Like a bunch of friends who all became freaks in the same way together. >> Yeah. They just It's just people really >> really reaching for answers where they have none. [laughter] >> Sorry, real quick. >> Mhm. >> Do you know what I mean? Like people who just really are dying for some sort of explanation for a world they no longer understand. [laughter] >> That's fair. That's fair. I mean, I I think that [laughter] when it comes to piss, piss is up there with like >> like when if you're doing culty stuff, >> other things >> and then someone's like, "I'm going to need to piss or I'm going to need you to piss or whatever." >> I kind of put urine up there with like, "I'm going to need you to suck something like that." Like, like as soon as we get into bodily fluids, I'm like, "Guys, this is a cult. I'm out." >> Yeah. >> You know what I mean? As long as we're baking cakes and everybody's like wearing the same color or whatever, it's like, "All right, you're not hurting anybody. >> We're gonna do like corduroy Thursdays. Let's just [laughter] >> suck each other off or call it a day." >> As soon as you get into like [laughter] >> the Yeah. I mean, as soon as you get into fluids, I'm like, "This is a cult." Like, like that that should be such a line that people draw. And it actually is the the line most people draw. Like most people are like in a in a cult for like a yearish and then something happens where they're like drink this or suck this and people are like ooh >> Mhm. >> Yeah. >> Yep. That was actually you vom this whole thing. We shouldn't be peeing outside next to the tub. That's unsanitary. Like it's like there's something about like suck this that wakes people up. I know. That's what I I really hope that like the Trump the MAGA people just start like sucking each other off soon, like doing some [laughter] weird [ __ ] you know? >> Yeah, I feel like Yeah, I guess it really has. >> Yeah, I guess what? Well, yeah, for sure. >> Yeah. >> Plants, but at some point it started to smell like really strong. >> Clark cuts in with we had to hold a wormhole special meeting to address this. And we found out one of >> P meeting Remember, Adam, the only man on the property, admitted peeing in the [ __ ] time out. >> Yeah, that's cult. Period. [ __ ] absolutely. >> Oh my god. >> Yeah, that Oh, you really buried the lead. Adam, the only man on the premises. [laughter] >> Yeah, the one we're all squatting in peibl. >> The one with the biblical name and the pea fetish. >> Yeah. [laughter] Yes. >> Yeah. Yeah. Wow. We didn't know it was a pee fetish. He told us it was a problem with the pipes and we start peeing outside. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> He just told that. That would be such a great short film like a cult leader that like tells everybody the toilet doesn't work and everything. [laughter] Everybody's peeing all the time and all these jars and like peeing outside and then one day somebody's like clean cuz they got to clean cuz everybody in the cold has to work. And so one day they're like, "Clean the toilet that doesn't work." And their hand slips and it flushes >> and his whole life comes crashing down. [laughter] They're like, "He's a liar. >> He lied to all of us." >> He's been like slowly becoming more and more jaundest as the [laughter] >> you flush the toilet, he goes regular colored again. >> Like what? [laughter] >> What's happened? >> Maybe he is magic. >> The only man on the property admit it's peeing in the bucket that Anne uses. Upon doing some more research, we found out man pee is totally chemically different from girl pee. So that combined with the oppressive summer heat was a recipe for this nasty situation. [laughter] >> I'm sorry. I'm sorry. >> Man, I feel so bad because this news is so not about where we're taking it, but I can't think about anything else. I know. I know. >> Like the smell is is like not as interesting to me as like the situation they found themselves in. >> Yes. Yes. And the fact that they refer to man, it's like, "Hey, yeah, I just took a man pee or like I just took a girl pee." I just got to say, Mag, if you're not a part of this situation, I just if you are involved in this in any way, please get out. Yeah. Get out. Please. >> These are your friendly neighborhood [laughter] news podcasters. >> Yeah. >> Telling you that now is the time to run in the other direction. >> Yeah. Yeah. Do not wait. Do not wait until Adam shows up in a robe. [laughter] with a [ __ ] funny jar of piss. >> Yeah. With a with a jar of piss. [laughter] Talking about how we just need to sleep until they come bring us to Zion. Like like [laughter] >> if he's petting a cat real slow. >> Yeah. Yeah. [clears throat] >> Is man pee different than woman pee? >> No. There's no way. Right. >> Absolutely not. >> I could see it smelling difference, but ultimately I doubt it really doesn't matter. I don't I don't think there's like an actual like compound difference. I just think like for some reason I don't know where I got this from, but I'm I'm pretty sure that like men's pee can smell stronger. Anybody's pee can smell stronger than >> I don't know. Walk into a women's restroom. I promise you, >> maybe it's just cuz >> some of these [ __ ] do not drink water. That's all [laughter] I have to say. >> I was about to say I feel like hydration is a bigger issue. >> Yeah, I think it's more that. I think it's more that >> because why would it be different? Sweat I get >> uh hormones in piss slight differences in chemical and hormonal compositions with men often having more concentrated urine >> or higher uh osmolality. >> Yuck. Whatever that [laughter] is >> due to factors like diet and potentially different vasopressin response. Well, women's urine can be slightly more alkaline, higher pH, and different proteins related to immune function and the reproductive system. >> And see, that's why Adam has to drink it. [laughter] >> For the protein, of course. Of course. >> Don't you want your lord to be healthy? [laughter] >> Yes. >> Yeah. [snorts] When asked if there will be a resolution to this conflict, Clark said, Adam is no longer allowed to pee in our corner. We have the whole world to pee in. Let us have our freedom. Seems like a solution has been found and harmony restored at this uptown commune. This is Mag reporting from New Orleans, Louisiana. >> Reporting from the basement. >> Thank you so so much, Mag. Thank you so much. I will say I I actually think that maybe we were wrong and it's not a cult if everyone was like, "You're done, >> bro. You're done peeing in our corner." It's like if everybody's telling him what to do, he doesn't seem like the leader. >> Well, if if it >> could be a different type of cult. >> Yeah. I'm like, if it ended with just like you can't pee in this corner anymore, that doesn't feel like a final straw. It feels like It feels like the first bump in a road. >> Yes. It's going to maybe go a couple more years. >> Lose the battle, but not the war. You know, he might be giving the women the pea corner for the illusion of freedom. >> Yeah. >> Sound familiar, Americans? >> Yeah. >> Yes. [laughter] >> Yes. You know, yes, >> it's a metaphor. I'm not sure for what, but it's a metaphor. There's something there. >> Yeah. Yeah. There's definitely something there, >> but it is 9:07. I know you said you got 910. >> Okay. >> But thank you so much. Is there any Thanks for having me. >> Where can the people find you? >> Um, you can find my Netflix special on Netflix. It's uh called the motherloadde. And uh you can find me on Instagram and Tik Tok and YouTube, Rosebud Baker. And oh, and I have a book coming out. So you can go to my website. Yeah, I got a book coming out. Um so you can pre-order that at rosebudaker.com. >> And pre-ordering really helps, right? >> It does. It really helps. They get very impressed with whatever >> it all but also for getting on like the lists. All those pre-orders count as like the first week of sales. So, really helps bump you up to like bestseller status. >> I'll put a link in the description to make it easy listener. >> Yeah, thank you. Yeah, it's called Fully Baked. Um, so go check that out. >> And she's on tour in the US and Australia. Get tickets at rosebudaker.com. >> That's dope. >> Thank you so much. >> Thank you guys. I appreciate you having me. So fun. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Heat. Heat.