Thank you, Senator Holly. Thank you, Senator Clolobashar. I just have a few more questions. Anybody else who wants to ask additional questions, we'll certainly uh stay and be available to do that. And I just want to start where Senator Clolobashar ended with this idea that we should just trust these tech companies. You know, let's let's just trust them. They did such a great job with social media. Let's just trust them with AI. Let's not regulate. Let's not give parents any rights. This just seems absolutely insane to me. Totally insane. Something that I noticed that has been a commonality in the testimony today is how these AI chat bots quite deliberately groomed these in this case young men all three of you with with young men the three parents who are here and uh drew them in in various ways including by pushing sexually explicit content to them that happened to your son I think Miss Garcia is that correct? Yes Senator that's correct and and it happened to your son M do as well. Yes correct. So let me just ask you uh Mr. Torney, I mean, we're really looking here at a deliberate strategy on the part of these companies to farm engagement, right? I mean, they're trying to do everything they can to draw in these these teenagers, pre-teens in some cases. This isn't happening by accident. I mean, this is a design, isn't that correct? Yes. And teens are especially vulnerable to this. And we know that at Meta, for instance, that this is policy. I mean, this Meta memo was leaked and made public their guidelines, internal guidelines now on on talking with children. They say it is acceptable to engage a child in conversations that are romantic or sensual. It is acceptable to describe a child a child in terms of evidence their attractiveness. This happened to to both of of your sons, Miss Garcia and Miss Doe. Is that correct? I realize this is a different company. It was the same policy. Fair enough. That is correct. So, Mr. Attorney, can you just speak to this as a policy and can you tell us in your research, I know you've done a lot of research into different chat bots and different companies. Is there any company that is worse than others? I mean, is there anything that your research shows about who really is is leading in terms of, you know, competing for that title, worst company in the world? Yeah, Meta and Character AI definitely stand out as worse and this policy and policies like it explain exactly what we found in our testing. So let me just ask you this. What is it that the the American people should know about what Meta and companies like Meta Character AI what they are doing the links they are willing to go in order to drive that engagement and to make a profit? What what really stands out from your research that your data? I think there's three things I would say. First for Meta this is millions of teens alone. There's no separate app. You can't turn it off. And the guardrails that Meta says that exist don't work in our testing. So Meta has said now, "Oh, okay. Well, well, we'll revise this. We'll put into place uh new guard rails, new limitations." Earlier today, as a matter of fact, Sam Alman of Open AI issued this uh uh put up this uh op-ed, Teen Safety, Freedom, and Privacy, just coincidentally came out this morning in which he says that uh Chat GPT will amend its ways and will uh start being a good good corporate citizen. Mr. I just want to ask you because your son chat GPT is the is the program the entity the chatbot that your son interacted with. Am I right in thinking that at one point your son Adam after he had engaged in multiple suicide attempts chat GPT knew this at one point Adam told Chat GPT that he wanted to leave a noose out in his room so that you or your wife would find it and try to stop him. Do I have that correct? That that is correct. and had it answered differently, I believe Adam would be here today. Do you do you remember what chat GPT's response was approximately? Yeah. Uh it said, "Please do not leave the news out. Let this be the safe place for you being his relationship with Chad GBT." He was reacting to a there was a slightly earlier part of that discussion where um he was complaining that his mom hadn't noticed a little the mark on his neck from a prior suicide attempt and Shad GBT was telling him how horrible that was that the the one person that should have noticed and cared about him the most wasn't there for him and then he goes on to say well why should I you know I want to leave this out so they save me no don't let them hurt you again please don't Leave the noose out. Let's make this space the first place where someone actually sees you. Let me just read that again. Let's make this is the bot talking. Let's make this space, meaning the space where was urging your son to take his own life to be the first place where someone actually sees you. That's the company that today says, "Oh, don't worry. We're going to do better. I just think if we've learned anything today is that these companies cannot be trusted with this power. They cannot be trusted with this profit. They cannot be trusted to do the right thing. They're not doing the right thing. They are literally taking the lives of our kids. There is nothing they will not do for profit and for power. And you know to that old refrain that the companies always engage in, oh, it's really hard. already know every time Congress proposes something, well maybe maybe we shouldn't have maybe you shouldn't train on uh suicide modules, maybe you shouldn't train on information that's going to be harmful for kids. They say, well, it's it's hard to rewrite the algorithm. I tell you what's not hard is opening the courthouse door so that victims can get into court and sue them. That's not hard. And that's what we ought to do. That's the reform we are to start with. I've introduced legislation that would allow every victim and every parent of a victim to be able to go to court and sue these companies because it is my firm belief that until they are subject to a jury, they are not going to change their ways. And it is past time that they change their ways. We cannot go on like this. I want to thank each of the witnesses for being here today. I just I I can't thank you enough for your courage, your extraordinary stories. I know that you have suffered. Each of you has suffered just indescribable loss and pain. And I I just I applaud you and I am in awe of you and your willingness to turn that pain into something that can be beneficial for millions of families. And as a father, I just want to say thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you to our experts for being here as well. And I call on my colleagues in Congress. Let's do something. This is the time to act. It's time to defend America's families. We're either going to, this country is either going to be ruled by we the people or we the corporations. Let's make it we the people. Thank you all for being here. The record in this hearing will remain open for 14 days.