[applause] You're familiar with Miss Rachel? Yeah. [cheering] Uh, incredible person. And and and her her her kids videos are so popular that um on TikTok parents will will like the they'll put Miss Rachel on and she starts every episode the same. She goes, "Hi, hello." And when their babies hear that, like, "Hello." Even if they're asleep, they'll just be like, That's the kind of fan base I want. I know I have some fans here tonight and I'm so grateful for you, but I would vastly prefer if you were a baby 100%. [laughter] Because then if I ever saw you in the wild, you'd just be like as opposed to like your crowdwork videos help me through a dark period of my life. Don't get me wrong, it's it's I'm still grateful, but but it can get intense [laughter] after shows. It'll be like, "Good job. Great set. I had the gun in my mouth." [laughter] And I was shaking so much I accidentally opened YouTube shorts. I'm not tooting my own horn. People have told me that my videos have helped them overcome suicidal ideiation. And every time they say that, I'm like, "Which video was it?" [laughter] [cheering] [laughter] But it's fine. I'm I'm I'm I I love that I have a a a passionate fan base. I am worried though that it's veering a little bit too far to the left [laughter] because I've noticed that when I post uh videos about uh politics or or America, there's more and more comments that just say we need to bring back the guillotine. [laughter] >> [cheering] >> See, I got to tell you, that's my biggest problem with anti- capitalists. [laughter] They have not figured out a way to upgrade from the guillotine. We are not winning this battle one by one, guys. [laughter] That's why you need TO GET RID OF ALL the billionaires. You need to keep one Jeff Bezos around to guillotine at scale. Some kind of assembly line shopping that ends with a drone system that brings the heads back to their families. [laughter] SEE, THEY'RE NOT [ __ ] READY FOR IT. YOU SEE, THAT'S THE PROBLEM. [ __ ] LEFTISTS ARE LIKE, "EAT THE RICH, FARM TO TABLE." [laughter] I don't know if I'm a a leftist or a socialist or a champagne socialist or a [laughter] communist. It doesn't matter though what I call myself. If you ask any of my friends, they would all agree I am more of an acquaintance. [laughter] AND YOU KNOW WHAT? THAT'S THE PROBLEM WITH HAVING TOO MANY POLITICAL OPINIONS. You know, you start weighing in on every single argument and instead of persuading anyone to join your party, they stop inviting you to theirs. [laughter] So, I've been asking myself more recently, not what things do I like not care about. I'm always going to be a bleeding heart, but like which debates am I not the right advocate for? [laughter] Like trans women playing women's sports. I can't believe it's still coming up, but it is. And every time it does, someone who's who's like more centrist, they'll say this. They'll be like they'll be like, "Look, I believe people should identify as they see fit, but you have to acknowledge certain biological advantages, and if you let trans women play women's sports, it will ruin sports." And every time I'm just like good. [laughter] [cheering] OH NO, SPORTS. THE THING THAT RUINED MY CHILDHOOD. LET IT BURN TO THE [ __ ] GROUND. [cheering] And yeah, would I feel differently if in high school a trans man had beaten me for the part of Seymour at Little Shop of Horrors? [laughter] Maybe. But that never would have HAPPENED [laughter] [laughter] [laughter] when Charlie Kirk got shot. [cheering] God, guys, there's cameras in here. [laughter] >> [laughter] >> When Charlie Kirk got shot, the media did that thing where they were trying to find out the political affiliation of the shooter. They were like, "Was he a Republican or a Democrat?" And it's like, "He was 22. His political party was a hentai subreddit." [laughter] And that's usually the case. Most political shooters are young because by the time you're a full-fledged adult, there's so many other people you want to kill. >> [laughter] >> You'd rather shoot your spouse than make a difference. [laughter] But they did find out that the shooter was uh dating a a a trans woman at at at the time. And of course, conservatives, they leapt on that. They tried to connect that to another shooting that had happened earlier from someone who had identified as trans. And this is all during a time when Trump's Department of Justice was kind of floating the idea out there where they were like they were like maybe trans people shouldn't be allowed to have guns and the NRA was like no. Now look, I'm not here to defend the NRA. But it was nice to see a group with some integrity nowadays. Can we at least say that? [cheering] I mean, think of how many organizations have bent the knee to Trump. only the NRA was like, "This is our only thing, dude." [laughter] And I I don't know. I don't know. I mean I mean I mean I mean if if if the NRA is the future of progressive politics, we might have to change some of the slogans, but trans rights are gun rights. Boom. Just did it right there. I don't love guns, but if every trans person had one, there'd be a lot less misgendering. I'll tell you that [ __ ] right now. I MEAN, COME ON. ARE WE GOING TO PROTECT TRANS RIGHTS? ARE WE GOING TO PROTECT TRANS RIGHTS? [cheering] I THINK WE CAN FIND COMMON ground with the NRA and and traditional liberal things like liberals love musical theater. Trump just took over the Kennedy Center. Let's put on a production of Annie get they their gun. [cheering] It's time for us to embrace the LGBTQIA2 plus NRA community. [laughter] Because I promise you, those those those gun folks, they care about guns more than they do the other conservative values. I'm sure they saw what happened at Charlie Kirk. They couldn't help but a small part of them was like, "Good shot." [laughter] [laughter] I know I'm going to get in trouble for a joke someday. [laughter] Could be one I tell tonight. Could be one I tell in the future. Could be a joke I told years ago, but it just goes viral in the wrong circles. Who knows? The only thing I'm sure of is that when I get in like serious trouble for a joke. I know a lot of you are going to pretend like you never liked anybody. [laughter] I know how this relationship works. Cuz I'm 37. I'm old enough to remember when most people in this country thought Jay Leno was funny. [laughter] Yes, it's true. There was a time something crazy would happen in the news. People literally said, "I can't wait to see what Jay Leno has to say about this." [laughter] And then people started making documentaries about [ __ ] that happened in the '9s. Like they make a movie about the woman who sued McDonald's cuz she spilled the coffee on herself and she said it was too hot. And and and the movie to establish the mood in the country at that time opens with a shot of Jay Leno at the Tonight Show being like, "You see this dumb [ __ ] who spilled the coffee on herself? [laughter] Which if you don't know Jay Leno, this is a perfect impression I'm doing right now. [applause] [laughter] Take it from Monica Lewinsky. There's worse hot things you can spill on yourself. [laughter] And as the camera shows Jay just basking in the audience's universal laughter, the narrator of the documentary comes on and goes, "The coffee was so hot her [ __ ] melted together. And people watch this at home and they go, [laughter] "FUCK JAY LENO." [applause] That's the reason I do crowd work, so I can get you [ __ ] on film. [laughter] [laughter] I once saw a woman post on some comedy forum on Reddit. She said, "Where can I go to see standup that's not just a straight white guy complaining about cancel culture?" And I was like, "There are thousands of places I'm not performing tonight." [laughter] I like talking about cancel culture. I think it's a fascinating topic. I think what's become so boring is people act like it's new. There's nothing new about consequences, punishments, shame, forgiveness, apologies. I mean, these go back to before any of us even they had they had cancel culture back in ancient Rome. Is this back then when you got cancelled? They killed you [laughter] because they were wise. They knew if they didn't, they'd have to hear you whine about cancel culture for the next 50 [ __ ] years. And before you knew it, every coliseum show is some guy like it too triggered brute. [laughter] I think the only real different thing about what we called cancel culture was social media. I mean I mean look, social media it's it's it's really it's it's destroyed the fabric of humanity, but it's done a lot for me personally. And and I I I think we just went through such a long phase where where we all came under the illusion that like if someone got cancelled on on social media, it was as if they ceased to exist in real life. And I think because of that, we lost track of just how many people we canled, especially in America. Turns out it was enough to win the popular vote. [laughter] And I'm not saying you shouldn't have morality. I'm just saying if it's not based in real world consequences, it's not going to be sustainable. Like I think, and this will come off as bias given my background. I think we canceled too many actors. I I don't think it mattered when they were like, you know, the untalented ones. But [laughter] I I do worry sometimes that we canceled enough really good actors to frankly make a pretty good movie. [laughter] >> [laughter] >> I saw a video online of Kevin Spacy visiting Israel. [laughter] And I know that's a tough sentence to take in at a comedy show. You hear Kevin Spacy, you go, "Surely it can't get worse." [laughter] But but it's online. Kevin Spacy is getting a pretty nice tour around various parts of Israel. Clearly government sponsored. And that's the part that concerns me because I go, if the current Israeli administration produces a big budget propaganda film starring the very talented Kevin Spacy [laughter] in a new film written and directed by Woody Allen, produced by Harvey Weinstein [laughter] with a P. Diddy soundtrack. I'm going to see it. [laughter] My god. Do you think the Jews ran Hollywood before? [laughter] When I mention I'm Jewish on the internet like 12 times a day, [laughter] and I don't even mean politically. If if it's like uh uh if I say happy Passover, post a picture of uh me and my my my girlfriend lighting Hanukkah candles, I will get a number of messages automatically that say free Palestine. And I have no problem with the sentiment. I just know when I get that just because I said that I'm Jewish, it's because those people assume that because I'm Jewish, I must be a Zionist. And I try not to engage, of course, but I I always want to write back like, please scroll down like three videos. Not to sound cliche, but do the research [laughter] because then you'd know that most of the criticism I get are from Zionists. You know, I last two years I've been called all sorts of stuff. a um a a pygmy Jew, a self-hating Jew, a capo, a useful idiot. One woman wrote me, she said, "You're just pretending to be Jewish so you can make fun of Israel." And I was like, "Do you think I circumcised myself?" [laughter] [laughter] And I'm not saying this to to to claim I'm the victim in any. I'm just saying it's surreal that there's all these people out there who assume that just because I'm Jewish, I must be a Zionist. Well, at the same time, there's other people go there because I'm not a Zionist, that means I'm not Jewish. And it's not just me dealing with this. There's a lot of us. Truly, there's a lot of us. And sometimes I feel like we need a country of our own. It's like somewhere we can feel safe in the Middle East. And I mean, there's not that many of us. from the river to a Whole Foods would be perfectly sufficient for my needs. [laughter] And that'll be the joke that does it. >> The G, the I, the A, the N, the M, the A, the RC, O John. The G, the I, the A, the N, the M, the A, the RC.