It's kinda funny, some of the most successful movies and TV shows of the last few decades have been ferociously anti-capitalist. While he shows Earth destroyed by corporate consumerism, Severance basically tells us that our jobs are like a workplace prison. Fight Club rages against IKEA lifestyles and wage slavery. And Squid Game bluntly stages debt-ridden people literally killing each other for money. These stories all have one theme in common. It's destroying us. And yet, we consume them through the very system that they critique. Disney's old wall-e plush toys, Severance has become one of Apple's biggest franchises, while it mirrors the very big tech workplace environment that Apple is known for. You can buy an original Fight Club poster, whatever that means, for $250. And Netflix monetized Squid Game with a literal reality TV show and branded merch. But why do our most popular cultural critiques of capitalism come neatly packaged as products of capitalist media? And if they're packaged like this, do they even have any effect? As someone who makes YouTube videos myself, and as someone who likes to explore anti-capitalist ideas in these very movies and TV shows, I've been reflecting a lot on this seeming contradiction lately. You know, I've made a lot of videos about sci-fi shows like The Expanse, where I try to break down the injustices it reveals about our own society, about resource extraction and human exploitation, about the ills of capitalism. But every time I publish these videos to YouTube, which itself is a monetized platform, well it's hard to escape the irony. Here I am on YouTube, advocating for an anti-capitalist future, but doing so within a profit-driven attention economy that rewards content for clicks. It's easy to think I'm doing something good by critiquing the world we live in, but I also think I need to face a simple hard truth here. This script that I'm articulating right now, the video that you're watching, well does it really change anything? Or am I just feeding the content machine by repackaging revolutionary ideas as entertainment for you to consume? You know, just like someone would buy a Che Guevara t-shirt made in a sweatshop. I know it sounds harsh, but I think this goes for all kinds of radical YouTubers, and I guess most movies and TV that's critical of our current economic system. Philosophers Frederick Jameson and Slavo Šižek have famously said that it's easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of capitalism. But why can't we imagine the end of capitalism? Well I think Disney Pixar's Wall-E is a great place to start. Wall-E is a movie that was made to make money, like most others, but at the same time it's all about anti-capitalist storytelling. If you remember, it presents a future Earth ravaged by corporate consumerism where the mega-conglomerate, by and large, or B&L, has become the entire government and economy of the world. They manufacture everything, even Wall-E himself. But as humanity's footprint grows, Earth becomes this heaping pile of garbage, so the corporation then evacuates what's left of humanity into space on cruise ship-style spaceships. And over generations, it turns them into passive consumers with zero agency. You don't get much more obvious about anti-capitalism than that. On the spaceship, people are literally strapped into hovering lounge chairs, fed by machines, sedated and consumed indeterminate slop from cups all day. And keep in mind, this was made before the rise of smartphones and AI slop as we know it today. And before Amazon really became the mega-conglomerate that B&L mirrors. So points for being prophetic, I guess. But what's ironic here is that Disney Pixar and their marketing team didn't really treat B&L as a satirical warning as much as a brand opportunity. You see, after the movie launched, they created a website to market B&L branded merch. And to this very day, you can buy a million different kinds of Wall-E paraphernalia on Amazon. Wall-E's central critique that consumption, corporate consolidation, and passive commodified existence lead to environmental and even spiritual disaster. Well, in real life, it became just another product to be consumed. Now, the writer and director Andrew Stanton said that he didn't have a political or even an ecological agenda when he said about making Wall-E. He just wanted to write a good story. And he certainly did. It's a great movie. Don't get me wrong. And I want to make this clear. It's also a very good critique, too. But there's actually a bigger problem here beyond this irony of branding capitalism. And here's what I mean. Movies like Wall-E pacify our desire for change. I know, I know it's a big statement, but stick with me here. So in 2009, a guy called Mark Fisher wrote a book called Capitalist Realism. And here he talks about something called interpassivity. It's a concept that describes how when we just observe other people's actions, like when we watch a critical movie like Wall-E, for example, while that in itself leads to a feeling that we're participating in change. But really, just by watching it, we aren't. We're just enjoying a good movie. For example, as Wall-E ends, we see humanity finally waking up from its consumerist coma. Everyone bravely abandons their screens, returns to Earth, and begins to rebuild a better world. And that ending feels cathartic. We might actually leave the movie feeling like the problem has been addressed. Thank God the environment is still on the agenda, right? But really, nothing has changed in our world. So Fisher's point here is that a movie like Wall-E does the anti-capitalism for us. We enjoy the critique, and that enjoyment sustains our inaction. What this really means is that capitalism doesn't need something like propaganda to keep everyone on board. It actually prefers a kind of cynical pragmatism, where we feel like there's no alternative. And that, in a way, is propaganda in itself. Like we all know that money and consumerism can be hollow. We nod along when a movie satirizes corporate life. But we proceed as normal because at a deeper level, we feel no alternative exists. And Wall-E underlines that feeling. In Wall-E, we see that endless resource extraction destroys our civilization. And the stakes really don't get much bigger than that. But in the movie, it's okay. Because everyone can just piece off into space until nature cleans itself up. And so who is it really that saves humanity here? Have the people finally come together to solve the issue collectively? Have they imagined a new society where corporations don't control everything? Well, not really, no. It's two robots, Wall-E and Eva, and the captain of the Axiom spaceship. Basically three individuals managed to end the consumerist dystopia we see in Wall-E. Three individuals save us. What this does, I think, is it says, yeah, there's no alternative. But that's okay. Because you as an individual have the power to save us. It's actually your responsibility to do something about it. And so we might watch this and think, well, think about how we need to consume less and stop littering, and so on and so forth. And that's great and all, but it also diverts our attention from the real issue. Famously, big oil coined carbon footprints to blame us for their greed. Why? So we forget that big corporations are in fact the ones who need to change things. And how? By changing the system. They work within, not our individual consuming habits, because production comes before consumption. So Fisher's point here is that Wall-E hasn't imagined some new paradigm or political system. It's still just a few good guys and technology even that saves us. It's still very much liberal capitalism. But to put it more concretely, I think movies like Wall-E are allowed to exist, so to speak, because one, it's good brand business. And two, they don't really lead to any meaningful change, but instead give us the illusion of change and turn us into what I like to think of as couch idealists. And so as a result, we sit and hope that technology will save us as we blame each other for not recycling enough, instead of pointing our collective fingers at the big oil companies. But hold on a minute, that's all reasonable. But here I am critiquing Wall-E and I'm doing it to make money on YouTube. So how do video essays and meta critiques on YouTube fit in here? Hey, I hope you're enjoying the video so far. A lot of work went into this one. It really helps so much if you give it a thumbs up if you're enjoying it and subscribe if you want to see future videos of mine, like more than you might imagine. Thank you so much and back to it. Does it make sense for me to sit here and take down a great movie like Wall-E and talk about post-capitalist ideas like I do in my other videos on a platform like YouTube that uses that content to commodify that critique? YouTube is a capitalist business. The point is to make a profit. YouTube sells ad spots to other companies to sell us stuff. And I'm using YouTube as a platform to make anti-capitalist content, partly also to make money, even though I would frame it more like to make a living doing something I like. Well, reflecting on this question, I keep thinking about this meme that I once saw on Facebook. Yeah, a meme. "I disapprove of the system," says the slave. "Then why are you participating in it?" replies the enforcer. This is a meme posted by the organization Films for Action and this is what they have to say about it. "The objection, if you criticize society, why do you participate in it, is not only illogical, it's historically and morally incoherent. By that standard, one would have to instruct every critic of injustice, from Socrates to Frederick Douglass, that their dissent was invalid because they continued to live within the society they criticized. Should they simply have stopped breathing?" I think this also very much mirrors a similar sentiment from that famous Chomsky vs Foucault debate all the way back in 1971. I remember someone in the audience asking Chomsky about a similar irony in his work. There are people who argue, and I've never understood the logic of this, that a radical ought to dissociate himself from all oppressive institutions. That is, the logic of that argument is that Karl Marx shouldn't have studied in the British Museum, which if anything was the symbol of the most vicious imperialism in the world, the place where all the treasures of empire were gathered, the rape of the colonies was all poured in there and so on and so forth. But I think Karl Marx was quite right in studying in the British Museum. He was right in using the resources and in fact the liberal values of the civilization that he was trying to overcome against it. And I think the same applies in this case. What I'm getting at here is that it seems illogical or it just doesn't make sense to say that anti-capitalist or anti-consumerist critiques are worthless on a consumer-focused platform like YouTube. Because at the end of the day, radical YouTubers or you know whatever you want to call it, well they do get the message out. The least I can do is make use of the liberal values we have like free speech, right? Well at least while the algorithms still promote my content. But wait, hold on a minute. Doesn't that contradict what I was just saying about Wall-E? That watching it makes us passive and though we feel like we are participating in the good fight, it doesn't change anything. Now I've thought about a lot of ways to address this paradox and the only conclusion I can come up with is that it's not that black and white. So let's see if we can resolve the paradox in a different way. Where I myself am not just ironically using Wall-E as nostalgia to sell you this very video. But first to underscore the very paradox I'm talking about, I spend a lot of time talking about fiction, but there's one real world issue that really needs our attention right now, our environment. So I recently joined my friends over at Planet Wild, an amazing community funded organization that restores our ecosystems all over the globe. It's like crowdfunding, but for nature. Every month they fund a different project from bringing back endangered species to restoring our forests or cleaning up oceans, and they document everything right here on YouTube so you can see exactly what your contribution helps achieve. One of their many missions is to turn a power line into an insect highway. That's pretty amazing. Beneath these long and empty stretches of high voltage cables, Planet Wild is rewilding the land as we speak, planting native flowers, restoring soil and creating corridors where insects and wildlife can thrive again. And it's supported by us collectively having an effect. Now, this is just one of the many things they've been working on to help restore the health of our planet. They have so many other missions that you can support literally from your sofa and you can actually see your impact in less than 30 days to from their YouTube channel, which is really cool to see. If you want to join a community who care about our planet and make a difference, check out this link here or scan this QR code to join Planet Wild today. You can give whatever amount feels right to you and you can cancel any time. And as a little gift, the first 100 people to sign up using my code, Marcus 11, will get their first month paid for by me. This is a great way to have a legitimate impact. OK, let's look at a more recent example of capitalist realism so we can really get to the root of the issue here. Take severance. People call severance the show of the year. It very obviously critiques working culture in our current system by imagining a future where it's gotten so bad that people prefer to sever themselves from reality than to actually work. This is very obviously an anti-work critique of capitalism, but it's a narrative that, again, doesn't go into alternative ways of working, at least not yet, or how we might value the meaning of work in different new ways. And let's not forget that it's made by Apple, a mega corporation that loves to undermine the very ideas that they actually promote. Apple loves to turn critical thinking into commercialized safe narratives. So severance, you know, being an Apple show and all, I doubt it'll even show us an alternative way of setting up how we might work in future seasons. Take a look at this ad from the first Mac computer. Remind you of anything? Mindless, colorless workers succumbing to Big Brother, echoing Orwell's dystopian 1984 and in turn forecasting severance itself. But oh, wait, here comes the colorful revolutionary the embodiment of the Apple Macintosh. Basically, the message here is that buying a Mac is the way out of slavery, the way to become a mindful, vibrant worker. But from our perspective today, the irony is undeniable, to say the least, because nowadays the iPhone spies on us just like Big Brother would. Funnily enough, Apple doesn't let bad guys use iPhones on screen. What I'm getting at is that severance is pretty on brand for Apple, a corporation that likes to think of itself as progressive through shows like severance. But in reality, it runs as a corporation that harvests our attention for data for profit. And so the critical message behind severance, Fisher would argue, is that it's just another product that we can consume because it doesn't imagine or offer us an alternative to our current system of work. Right? But at the same time, it still feels like we've participated somehow just by watching it. It's just like in Wally, where the movie conveniently ends right before we have a chance to see how humanity settles back on Earth and how they might set up an alternative way of living. Now, I say it's convenient, but I don't think it's deliberate per se. As Fisher put it, we have the widespread sense that not only is capitalism the only viable political and economic system, but also that it is now impossible even to imagine a coherent alternative to it. And this brings me back to myself and critics of society on YouTube in general. Listen, I have no delusions about what I do. I don't have the slightest notion that I'm truly changing anything by sitting here and critiquing the system we live in. I mean, how could I? I'm just one individual guy talking to myself on a camera about a Pixar movie. But reflecting on this, well, if there's one thing that I realized, it's that we need to come together as individuals into a collective movement. And to do that, we do need to imagine an alternative and not just the dystopian vision of letting things run their course as they do now. We need to shine a very bright light on other possible paths forward, other ways to organize society. Because if we don't, what is the actual point of the critique? One of my most popular videos is about a sci-fi series called The Orville, which imagines a post-scarcity, post-capitalist society. And if you watched that video, yes, I know I mispronounced the word scarcity to death. Scarcity, scarcity, scarcity, scarcity, scarcity. Trust me, I have been reminded. But yeah, I think the video really resonated with people because it actually does try to imagine an alternative way of setting up society. In this case, it's a society where reputation is the currency and not money. The one issue here, though, is that this vision is based on the premise that we get this technology that leads to a post-scarcity society. In The Orville, they created a little something called a matter synthesizer, basically a Star Trek replicator that makes anything people ask for. And it's a technology that allows them to create this post-capitalist world of abundance. In that video, I talk about the dangers of relying on a single technology like this to save us without our society being ready for it. But one thing that I didn't touch on so much is the fact that we already have the technology and social infrastructure in place to actually provide a decent life for everyone on this planet right now. For example, we produce more than enough food for 10 billion people, and yet millions starve. We have cheap renewable energy, yet our society still relies on fossil fuels. Have you ever thought about how much money, like specifically the size of the check it would take to solve the climate crisis? Probably not, right? But scientists, well, they've actually estimated a number for this. And it's totally doable, and that very thought is liberating. The number is around 2% of global GDP to avoid a rise in global average temperature of more than 2 degrees Celsius by 2050. And that's completely reasonable. It's less than the 2.4% of global GDP we spent on the military in 2023. Even though an actual utopia may not be around the corner, a dramatically better world, a sustainable, more egalitarian society, is actually within our technical grasp. So the real issue here is actually with our institutions and the way we distribute our resources. Yes, with our imaginations that seem to lag behind. Now I'd love to see more entertainment that actually imagines a different way of organizing ourselves, a different future. So to avoid being a total hypocrite myself, I've dedicated the rest of this video to a very specific idea that offers such an alternative based on what we have and not some miracle technology. Jason Hickel is one of my favorite academics because he doesn't try to obscure his ideas in overly complicated, hard to understand language, but instead lays out the problem of our time at hand and then offers a very concrete path out of them. To be a little more specific, Hickel is a champion of something called "degrowth". You might have heard this term before. It's become a lot more popular in recent years, especially since Covid. Now Hickel wouldn't call "degrowth" a movement, but more like a specific way to think about the future of a society where we, the people, decide what our resources are spent on. Some would call it a socialist policy, which unfortunately has a lot of negative connotation these days. But now a lot of people hear "degrowth" and they think it's a movement to halt progress in our society, to stop growing completely. But that's actually not true. Degrowth is basically a solution to two of the most pressing issues of our time. One being our crisis of well-being and two, our deteriorating environment. And it's a direct rebuttal to the religion of our time, that perpetual economic growth equals progress in our society. So it's an answer to the fact that we cannot save our environment or civilization through the economic growth paradigm. It's simply not feasible exactly because growth is based on profit. And profit inherently relies on short-term planning. So first to have any sort of meaningful conversation about this, we need to define what growth actually means. And here I'll let Jason speak for himself. Growth defined by economists, which is what we're talking about here, is a very specific thing, which is an increase in total aggregate production in an economy as measured by market prices. Let's get this very clear. It's not about social progress. It's not about innovation. It's not about good things necessarily, et cetera, et cetera. And so according to this metric, one billion pounds worth of tear gas is valued exactly the same as one billion pounds worth of healthcare or affordable housing or something like that. It's hard when you think about it, right? But this is the problem we have in a capitalist society, that we have this specific metric we call growth that we let decide what to produce. So here, the question we need to ask is really about who controls our production system or the means of production, as it's sometimes called. Like very literally what we use our resources for. Hickel argues that our current production system doesn't value social progress or human flourishing and certainly not environmental repair. For example, it doesn't value things like universal healthcare, education, public transportation, renewable energy, affordable housing, and even meaningful work, which are all foundations of a good life that don't require us to hustle for most of our waking hours so we can pay rent or see the doctor. No, instead our production system values profit. And that's the bottom line. That's capitalism. And when we think about the idea of capitalist realism here, the idea that we can't imagine an alternative to capitalism, then it's easy to see how our current production system has become super normalized in our society too. But if we look at some examples, it becomes very obvious why this is a completely absurd state of affairs. Take renewable energy. As it stands today, over 90% of global renewable power projects are cheaper than fossil fuels. And they've been cheaper for many years. Right now, solar power costs 41% less than the cheapest fossil fuel option. But we still rely on fossil fuels for our energy demands because, and this is the crazy part, even though oil and gas is more expensive, it's still more profitable. A big part of the reason for this, as the energy economist Nick Butler puts it, is that there's just less competition in fossil fuels. The barriers to entry to the renewables business are much lower than in oil and gas, and that increases competition and lessens profitability. Think about it. Renewables are cheaper and save the planet. Fossil fuels are more expensive and destroy the planet. I think I speak for all of us, at least us the people and not the ultra-rich, when I say that no one wants this because it's destroying our planet and creating massive inequality. To frame it differently, our growth-oriented system is actually a fundamentally undemocratic system. Now, this may seem strange to hear for those of us who live in democratic political systems, where we get to elect our officials from time to time, even if we acknowledge that these democratic processes are inadequate and corrupt. But when it comes to the economic system, the system of production, which shapes our civilization, determines the direction of our future, and is what we are engaged in most of the time in our waking hours. Not even a pretense of democracy is allowed to exist. Production is controlled overwhelmingly by capital under capitalism, and that is specifically the major financial firms, the commercial banks, the big corporations, and the 1% who own the majority of investible assets. These people who control finance and productive capacity get to determine how to use our labor, how to use our planet's resources and our planet's energy, what to produce, and then who benefits from the yields of production. We don't get a say over what gets produced, for what purposes, who benefits, and what to do with the surplus. Highly undemocratic, okay? Now what's especially absurd about our commitment to economic growth, the thing that capitalist realism has instilled as the normal way of organizing, right? Is that it relies on the false notion that we have unlimited resources. But of course we don't. And the limited resources that we do have are being extracted in a way that is destroying our environment. Perpetual economic growth is quite literally not feasible for the future of humanity. And that's also why, you know, green growth movements, like a Green New Deal, for example, doesn't really make sense. It's absurd on so many different levels, let's put it that way. It's a very common discourse, and of course it seems to make sense, right? I mean, we start from the premise that growth is necessary for the economy, and everyone assumes that growth is automatically good. I mean, the discourse is basically growth is innovation, improvement, social progress, you know, etc, etc. But this is not at all what growth actually is. I think it's quite important to point out. No. Like he said before, for growth, $1 billion of produced tear gas is the same as a billion dollars invested in healthcare. And that's the real point of this video. It's about the discourse. Because we think of capitalism as the only real option, right? It's hard not to internalize that sentiment and think that de-growth and socialism in general won't work. But in reality, it's endless growth that's pushing us towards the literal end of the world. It's precisely that apocalyptic scenario we seem to be able to imagine much more easily than any new economic system. Wall-E shows us the end of the world. It doesn't show us a system where the people where we decide what our resources are used for a few individuals save humanity, right? And the movie doesn't even show us what that new world looks like. There's something that I've been thinking about a lot recently that Jason Hickel also talks about. So in most political democracies in the world, like the US, like Denmark, the UK, and so forth, there's a green party that advocates for de-growth-like policies. Now I think it's interesting and also empowering to think about what would actually happen if we all, or at least half the population, if we decided to vote for them. So if the green party takes power, then we've effectively had a socialist revolution, isn't it? And this is the point I want to make, is that things that de-growth calls for cannot happen within capitalism. And to be fair, I know it sounds super unrealistic that everyone suddenly votes for the green party. Currently, the option is there for us in our liberal political democracies. Just like there's an option for me to make this video because of free speech, right? It's possible. Just like investing 2% of global GDP to save the planet is also possible. And so I think we need to internalize that these possibilities are real and they're attainable. This is also what political movements are built on. Because if we don't imagine a better future, then we certainly won't get one. And I would encourage everyone watching this to start imagining a different way of organizing ourselves on a large scale so that it becomes easier for all of us to internalize that these possibilities really are real and attainable. I recommend The Less is More by Jason Hickel. And also if you're interested in more specific, like, local ways of de-growth and how it might work, check out Slow Down by Kohei Saito. I genuinely also love to hear your thoughts on all of this in the comments. And if you think that like movies like Wall-E and YouTube commentators in general actually do make a difference. If you want to support the videos I make, you can do that on my Patreon page. I also post some updates there and have audio versions of my videos too. And it really goes such a long way. Also a huge thanks to Flacky for being a sponsor and thanks to all of the supporters there as well. And I want to give a big thanks to cinematographer Ben Engrave for helping me with the opening shot of this video. looks super dope and a big thanks to Rutwool and Anais2. And don't forget to check out my friends at Planet Wild. If you'd like to see them in action, you can watch their mission turning power lines into insect highways right here.