
So Im thinking about things and watching this random bodycam video. We're seeing a guy who took his kids on a hike that killed them, and the bodycam of him getting arrested before hand trying the same stuff. So its the kind of place in the mountains you think is amazing hiking place, but still civilized enough thats its a busy normal roadside. We are in the perfect location to see this gorgeous mountainous skyline and this is one of those places in the US thats still wilderness enough that you can only see one house with your eyes, and its in the exact perfect place where trees part, so that driving by you get this beautiful shot of the house clearly where the architecht planned you to see it from, and you can tell that you go around some back road to get there like the angle you are seeing the home from isnt ruined by a drive way, its a huge mansion the kind that clearly is not enough for one family let alone one person, but its not tacky or rich people coded its very on theme with the hiking mountainous region its in. I couldnt even tell you tbh I dont know I didnt hear when they said in the video where, but you get an idea, a very bob rossian vibe to the architecture. It makes me wonder who currently owns it. 

It makes me think about this because housing has been a crisis my entire life. An artificially created  one. There is enough space, especially here in Illinois... yet  they only develop certain parts and ration them out in ways that create fake scarcity so that we all work ourselves to death to stay housed, meanwhile this is the kind of place the people in charge typically live.. Maybe its not. Maybe it is. But either way, everybody I have ever known lives with this permanently instilled sense of anxiety about space. We can visit this cool travel destinations but there is a rent associated with travel, you are paying to stay at a place you are renting it all even if you feel a sense of freedom on a hike, its owned, you are owned, you have a timeline you can sustain paying to do this before you have to go back and work more, and you have to do all this its no choice you cant choose to stay longer, or build your own house somewhere, like people only a few hundred years ago felt was just basic life... 

There is a sort of resentment you have to fight. There is ick and evil and greedy people, but sometimes also not.. sometimes the locale is historically based about nature, and that one mansion is the only one there because they transitioned from the OG robber baron class family that built it into it being a public structure, and no more built to preserve land, and its made a public thing and like the boy scouts have dinners there and shit.. Sometimes its really really good and you would be doing yourself a disservice in life to simply see a landscape painting in real life of a location and only let yourself feel the seething hate of like, if it were the worst option.. You can easily let yourself think of all the people dying a slow death in wage slavery to live in a small cube and how they've taken so much from us.. 

But im thinking about how you have to check, in America. you cant just look at this and see beauty right away you have to kind of look into things and brace for the worst. Is this some based thing, neutrally just a private thing you cant take part in but like they are fine people just not people you know, or the worst like... the kind of thing where you look at the beauty and you hear a local being like "oh dont go anywhere near there, thats the dickhead family thats racist and mean and greedy and they'll fucking come for you if your ball lands on their side of the street so to speak... and their family name is the name of the company that is all of the internet for the state so... think about the power there... i wouldnt mess with them i wouldnt even look at it, the beauty, i would personally avoid the whole entier thing honestly back to the wage mines with you slave you've wasted enough time enjoying things." ok i got silly at the end but like... 

Thats interesting to me. That its such a spectrum to the point where I literally doing know how to feel looking at big house in the nature. I know only recently people would have seen that and just thought, big house in nature. end thought. or like, would be cool to stay there, end thought. Most of the people I know, if they stayed in this beautiful mansion overlooking an amazing forest thats got like, hiking trials premade you can visit and like im sure theres a hot tub and shit... How can you enjoy that when your life is so shitty and this only a minor glimpse... I mean on some level yea it would be fun but most people I know.. i mean im thinking this all just off an image bro most people I know would feel fucking weird thinking about like...... this is wilderness... this is what we tamed america to build modernity out of.... and now like, the mere concept of being in it and not forced in some way to do something is so fucking abnormal that to even like... we are imagining some people just randomly got a free vacation stay in that place.... A week, hell yea... a night? idk dude part of saying "thats rich people shit" is that depending on the vibes, its gunna be way harder for a poor person to take advantage of that becuase they're not gunna be able to go on a hike and think.... this should be allowed.. free... you should get to see nature sometimes... you should imagine that one day you may know the people who have a nice woodsy house and throw parties... like bro think to where they have gotten us i shouldnt see a house in the woods and be like yea that could be chill but honestly probably owned by oil barons or a weird cult or a family who owns everything but like, you'll never touch that and like i shouldnt have to imagine that space as like.. it would be WEIRD if i COULD visit like how would i sit there with my poor friends who i understand their headspace and a guy who gets to like, relax ever and be like how do i explain to him its weird to us to sit in a space and not feel a cost to it. The nicer the more cost.. so even though this is the woods... that view alone should cost us out of it... if you say its free dont worry our brain is literally like "how? how dont worry about housing"

Whats getting me is the extremes we have gotten to. Because im not even just looking at a landscape shot of this beautiful house in nature and trying to figure out if im mad at it or not, thinking about how all i have to do is imagine being a 100 years ago guy and why would a photo of a house make me angry thats goofy.... im also seeing the police... its making me think like... they have really eroded the trust in police, really everything every institution or concept these days is just fucking shot. 

but not firefighters... that kind of proves the point a bit.. or like makes shape to the conspiracy of it all. its not like... oh time made all the stuff shitty... nobody trusts police but fascists and nobody i can think of has had their thoughts about firemen or whatever shift its like... i mean its not like firefirghters are historically perfect good boys that just came together to fight fires, they started as gangs basically too but there isnt a game here. theres no benefit to corruption in firefighting like police. so while the firefighting concept congealed into a normal service, policing never did and stayed corrupt the whole time. So like, its not a coincidence nobody trusts police anymore but dont feel that way about other things.. 

i was also like... i heard an inbuilt youtube ad by the creator where he was like talking about this app that does healthcare where its crowdfunded or something like... good concept but the problem is these days if a tech company comes to me and goes "hey wouldnt it be smart if there was like, crowdfunded insurance? like we all just pay into this app and then when someone needs healthcare theres at least some money in a pool they can pull from, and the app just makes sure its not cheated like its going to healthcare like you claim"... yea that IS a good sell but... my brain starts playing black mirror on full blast at me if i try and accept a premise from a tech company at first glance without triple checking there isnt an angle where you're evil and this is a scam that will ruin all of society if we accept it. Maybe this crowdfunded healthcare app thing is fine. But my point is like, wow have they ruined us for that. I just, at this point, cant feel comfortable going "yea that is a good idea" because duh, thats the point of everything bad. It always starts with just doing the thing that seems like the solution, but actually doing some other evil thing as a bait and switch. Even if its not, my default is to presume a bait and switch and you will have to do work to clear yourself, prove you are actually doing the actual thing and not really fucking convincing as a trick to make money. Or just being like. Guys lets all make the world a better place blah bullshit like... I mean at this point when someone says "hey that fire is a fire and bad give me one dollar for water to put it out" my ears go "that sounds like the right thing to do. im suspicious immediately" like sure it sounds like what a good person would do but also im giving you a dollar? no thanks. Already sussed no thanks the shape of this is bad, you want me to... based on your words, give you money that i cant get back on a promise alone? Nice try bud I've got got six ways since sunday with that technique im fucking over it. 

Im like... speaking for the all of people too which is the thing... I wouldnt be saying this stuff if I just felt this way. 

Eroding fucking EVERYTHING has to come crashing down at some point. I dont see how much longer everything ran by anybody is a grift before people eventually just... arent playing anymore. 

I just wonder... I wonder what the future is going to look like. These graphs of erosion in my mind its like, imagine flipping between tons of graphs one is called "police" one is called "elections" one is called "the news stations" but its also stuff like "trust in your neighbor" like these graphs are at ATL and if they all go down low enough.... 

I mean I see a potential world in where a group of people come across this house and its like... why should they have that house and we dont... are they defending it? they are just using the social conventions of wealth and the police as a defense weapon? Uh... do you see police round these parts i sure dont... Looks like us people have a house... 

Im not btw saying "thats based" becasue thats obviously just like, anarchy phase.. something would have to build from that.. im just saying those people seeing that house as "our house" because they are combing through america looking for anybody relying on old bullshit systems and literally like.. this is a movie who knows if it would go this way but those people not seeing the old shit as real and like forging a new society of america basically... its pretty easy to imagine these days various factions all good... like really truthfully if its a movie and we are watching we are on the side of most of these factions hoping they form a sick new america and feeling safer in a house ran by them than the old rich people and all that... 

But the thing is our enemy... their day job is wrastling all this shit... there have been some wild pop-offs that get quelled each time... but the thing about those pop offs.... i mean these erosion graphs are like our game character health and each pop off we have had more health than now... our health is shrinking... thats the thing.. Thats what this ramble is... Im thinking through how like, i dont know what it looks like when the character hp in this analogy is like bottom zero, because the enemy has always been a necromancer that keeps us having enough HP to keep damaging... I am unable to predict anything past 0hp because what? people arent just gunna fucking DIE in the WAGE MINES bro there IS a limit to like "shut up the police arent here to help they're here to arrest if you protest they'll shoot you if you defend yourself" there is a limit to pairing that with "shut up elections are bullshit anymore we all know it just stop whining" while pairing that with "dont be on cops bad side they can kind of just do whatever who cares" while pairing that with "oh shit the economy just tanked sorry just eat that for all time to come just add a third job to the day and keep going we'll have you on 4 here soon enough this is life for based on not being born me"

like there IS a limit before the french revolution happens but again, i live in a country that has been the global leader in like, stasis of not having that happen... consuming its own revolt into energy to keep going.. 

but the health dropping thing is real these graphs thing is real like... there is a trend here where erosion of instructions is like YIKES level dropped low... and its one thing for one graph to be low like if trust in elections is shot, thats bad but like i said its all of them at once. What does that even mean. 